[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/]
Evolution Physiotherapy – Heidelberg West Sport Physiotherapist

At Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance we will work with you to understand your pain or injury and how it affects you and we guarantee to provide you with a written treatment plan to resolve the issue.

See Our Group Programs

Looking for Yoga Classes in Heidelberg West?

Meet Your Instructor

Our Heidelberg West Physio & Yoga Services

Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance provides physiotherapy treatment and diagnosis of common musculoskeletal pain and injuries.

Knee & Hip Osteoarthritis Physio

Remedial Massage Therapy

Physiotherapy for Brazilian Jiu Jitsu

Telehealth

WorkCover & CTP

Physiotherapy

Strength Training

Yoga

Sports Injuries

See All Services

We provide group exercise classes, to which any patients can attend. We highly encourage participating in these classes as you get small groups, 1:1 advice and coaching and thorough supervision while completing your exercise plan.

Our Strength & Performance Team

Our team is purposefully recruited to ensure we carry forward an outstanding culture, a supportive and inclusive working environment and the clinical expertise to get your the best results!

Stay strong, move better, and live pain-free with personalized fitness and strength training plans that help you manage pain and maintain lifelong mobility.

Strength & Performance Group Classes in Heidelberg, VIC

Our Group Classes are dynamic and energising making every workout an engaging and challenging experience.

ACL Rehabilitation

Strength & Conditioning

Group Exercise Classes

GLA:D Knee and Hip Osteoarthritis Program

See The Classes

Join us as we come together, led by experienced physiotherapists who will inspire and motivate you to achieve your fitness goals while enjoying the incredible camaraderie and support of a vibrant group setting.

Take a look around Evolution Physiotherapy

Latest Posts

Crushing Your First Marathon: A comprehensive beginner’s guide to completing your first marathon – Part 1.

12 May at 10:13 am

Benjamin Butler-Bonnice

Crushing Your First Marathon: A Beginner’s Guide Part 1.   This blog is focused on marathon training but can be…

Read this Post

Unleashing the Benefits of BJJ Strength and Conditioning Programs for Jiu-Jitsu Enthusiasts

January 29, 2024

Jiu-Jitsu, often referred to as BJJ (Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu), is a martial art that demands both physical prowess and mental acuity.…

Maximise Your Athletic Potential with a Strength and Conditioning Physio

Have you ever wondered how to elevate your game to the next level? The strength and conditioning physios at our…

See All Posts

Start Your Strength & Resilience Journey Today!

Your path to pain relief, strength, and control – personalised care, comprehensive treatment plans, and expert guidance for lasting wellness.

Make a Referral

Menu
BESbswy

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/make-a-referral]
Comments

This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.

Referrer's Name *
First
Last

Referrer's Email *

Referrer's Phone *

Referrer's Provider Number *

Participant's Name *

Claim Number

D.O.B. *

DD slash MM slash YYYY

Participant's Contact Details *

Participant's Home Address *

Plan Details

Plan Dates

Primary Diagnosis:

Goals of treatment

Funding Category

NDIS Private GP Care Plan TAC DVA Workcover

Contact Details for The Person Responsible for Making Appointment

If Plan Managed, which company?

Care Coordinator (if different from referrer)

Additional Notes *

Attachments

Max. file size: 3 MB.

Menu
Notifications

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/our-difference]
Experience the Evolution Physiotherapy Difference

When you visit Evolution Physiotherapy you will be greeted warmly and welcomed to our clinic.

We are excited that you have chosen us to be your go to health care provider! And, we want to provide a great treatment experience from our physiotherapy and other clinic services.

At Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance, we promise to listen to your concerns and your story and we will endeavor to treat and decrease your pain as much as possible at your initial consultation.

Our aim is to provide you with a diagnosis and the appropriate plan to treat it.

We will work with you to understand your pain or injury and how it affects you and we guarantee to provide you with a written treatment plan to resolve the issue.

We will provide a thorough and transparent treatment process, address key concerns and will provide a clear and comprehensive treatment plan targeting your specific goals.

We promise to listen to your concerns and your story and we will endeavor to treat and decrease your pain as much as possible.

Our consultations and treatments include an active and hands-on approach aimed at decreasing your pain and improving your movement as soon as possible.

Our clinic is equipped with treatment rooms and rehab facilities and we pride ourselves on providing patients the most comprehensive and up to date care.

One of the key aspects of how we work is to provide you with a plan to become strong, resilient and in control of your health. We do this with comprehensive strength training programs that utilize our strength training gym as well as thorough programming and quality coaching.

We have a purpose built exercise and rehab gym with a range of equipment and large floor space required for performing the most basic of exercises to advanced progressions.

Our classes and programs cater for those wanting to rehab or reduce injury, stay active, become stronger and achieve the most challenging physical goals!

We service the local community of Heidelberg West, Heidelberg Heights, Rosanna, Bellfield and surrounding suburbs.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/our-team]
Meet the Evolution Physiotherapy Team

Our team is purposefully recruited to ensure we carry forward an outstanding culture, a supportive and inclusive working environment and the clinical expertise to get your the best results! Our staff have been selected based on character, passion, intent and a willingness to work hard. All this, so we can be the best version of ourselves, so you can get the best results.

Managing Director and Senior Physiotherapist

Clinical Interest:  Strength training, manual therapy, and specialised sports and Brazilian Jiu Jitsu coaching to reduce pain, return to sport & boost performance.

Meet & Book

Menu

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services]
Sport Physiotherapy & Performance Services in Heidelberg West, VIC

Common conditions are treated using our unique system approach to ensure a consistent process in decreasing your pain, improving your movement and increasing your strength and performance.

We provide group exercise classes, to which any patients can attend. We highly encourage participating in these classes as you get small groups, 1:1 advice and coaching and thorough supervision while completing your exercise plan. Our clinicians are highly experienced in strength training beyond their clinical education, this is how we get you strong, pain free and back to your best, with experience, through planning and coaching.

We also provide remedial massage therapy, for those who require regular maintenance from sports, or even just for relaxation and recovery. Dry needling and mobilization techniques are used by our clinicians alongside your rehab plan to reduce pain and improve movement.

We also have a number of rehab programs that may suit your needs such as; GLA:D Hip and knee Osteoarthritis exercise program, ACL recovery programs, strength and conditioning, longevity and sports performance.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/classes-and-programs]
Strength and Performance Classes & Programs in Heidelberg West, VIC

Resolve your pain and rehabilitate your injury for the long term by participating in one of our dedicated rehab programs, which are conducted in a group class setting, while still providing much needed one-on-one advice and care.

Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance provides rehab programs for Knee and Hip OA (GLA:D program), ACL injury pre and post surgical and non surgical management, strength training, general pain conditions and sports injury rehab and strength and conditioning.

Our programs provide tailored advice to those who have suffered a specific injury, such as an ACL or knee ligament injury. During an ACL rehab program for example, the patient would be required to complete specific strength testing objectives based during their rehab plan, which would ensure the rehab is targeted towards the most up to date evidence and best practice.

This process ensures the patient can be confident in the rehab process and be confident in their return to sport plan.

Looking to increase your strength and perform at your best? Many patients benefit from our tailored strength training classes, which provide individual programs to best suit their needs. From weekend warriors, to dedicated athletes, we provide strength training programs that keep them in the game, pain free, injury free and performing at their best.

Recently had surgery?

And are looking to get back to doing what your love best? Our classes may be suited to you if you want to not only be pain free and mobile again, but want to get back to being stronger again, or be able to complete in your chosen field.

Whether its wanting to lift your kids above your head, run faster and longer, rehab from surgery or an acute injury, Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance provides tailored classes and programs to suit your needs.

Explore our classes & programs by clicking on the boxes below:

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/faq]
Frequently Asked Questions

Some of our Frequently Asked Questions. If you can’t find what you are looking for, please ensure you
so we can assist with your enquiry. Our team is always happy to help.

How do I book an appointment?

Appointments can be made by calling the clinic on
, or using our online booking portal, just click book now on our home page to enter the booking portal.

What should I expect at my initial appointment?

During your initial appointment, a physiotherapist will take a detailed history of your presenting complaint and gain relevant information which will guide the diagnosis and treatment. You will then be provided a written treatment plan to resolve the issue and have ongoing support throughout your treatment plan.

What should I bring/wear to my appointment?

You should wear comfortable clothing in case we need to inspect your lower body (knees, hips, ankles etc) and vice versa for the upper body. We have shorts at the clinic you can change into just in case.

If you are attending an exercise class, please bring a drink bottle and comfortable cloths to exercise in.

Do I need a referral?

No. You do not need a referral to see a physiotherapist. Although, if you have a WorkCover, DVA or TAC claim, you will be required to provide your claim number at your initial appointment, to claim any benefits.

If you have a care plan from your GP, you will also be required to present this at your initial appointment to claim any benefit.

A medical referral from your general practitioner is necessary only if: You have been injured at work and your case is being managed by WorkCover; or your treatment is covered by Veterans Affairs; or you are claiming your treatment expenses through a 3rd party claim.

Do you offer rebates?

Yes. If you have a care plan from your GP, you can claim this at your appointment, just make sure you bring the referral.

Cancellation Policy

Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance is committed to providing our clients with the best possible care. Therefore, we require 24hrs notice when rescheduling or cancelling an appointment, allowing other clients the opportunity to book at this time.

Failure to notify of cancellation within 24hrs will incur a fee up to 100% of the consultation fee.

Group class late cancellations or no shows are subject to the above policy and/or a session will be deducted from previously paid for session packs.

Please contact us on
or via email:
info@evophysiotherapy.com.au

Consultation fees are payable on the day of service.

Do you treat WorkCover, Veterans Affairs and TAC Patients?

Yes, we accept TAC, WorkCover and DVA claims. Payment is required on the day if we have not received confirmation that you claim has been accepted and you have reached your TAC, WorkCover or DVA medical threshold.

We bill TAC, DVA and WorkCover directly for your treatment once you have provided a claim number. However, there may be a gap fee to cover the rest of your consultation fee.

Can I use my private health cover at the clinic?

Yes. We have a HICAPs and eftpos facility at reception, which you can use to claim a rebate on your consultation fee, if you have extras cover. If you do not have your health provider card with you at the time of consultation, we will provide the details for you to claim with on our payment receipt.

Cash, EFTPOS and credit card facilities are available at the clinic.

Is there parking available?

Yes. On street parking is available on Bell street, either side. Off street parking is also available on Edwin Street and surrounds.

Still have questions?

Company

Full Name *
First
Last

Email *

Message *

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/contact]
Locating & Contacting Evo Physiotherapy, Heidelberg West, VIC

625 Waterdale Road, Heidelberg West, 3081

info@evophysiotherapy.com.au

Send a Fax

Opening Hours:

Monday:
8am–7pm
Tuesday:
Wednesday:
Thursday:
Friday:
Saturday:
8am–1pm
Sunday:
Closed

Facebook

Instagram

To navigate the map with touch gestures double-tap and hold your finger on the map, then drag the map.

Move left

Move right

Move up

Move down

Zoom in

Zoom out

Jump left by 75%

End

Jump right by 75%

Page Up

Jump up by 75%

Page Down

Jump down by 75%

Map

Terrain

Satellite

Labels

Keyboard shortcuts

Map Data
Map data ©2026 Google

500 m
Click to toggle between metric and imperial units

Terms

Report a map error

Send us a message

URL

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/classes-and-programs/group-exercise-classes]
Group Exercise Classes in Heidelberg, VIC

Our group exercise classes are dynamic and energising making every workout an engaging and challenging experience. Your program is tailored to you as an individual, so you can work at your own pace, guided by your practitioner.

We have a maximum of 5 participants, ensuring you get much needed one-on-one time during your class. Classes run for 1hr, providing time for an adequate warm up, strength exercises and core activities.

We provide tailored programs, specific to your needs. Which will run on a timeline to give you the best chance at reaching your milestones and goals.

We want to see you strong! With improved mobility and strength.

We run classes in a supportive and relaxed environment, with many locals taking part whom contribute to our community atmosphere. Classes are run by highly trained and experienced physiotherapists, whom deliver a quality service you can rely on.

We recommend participating in a 6-12 week course, which delivers the best results via 1-2, 1hr sessions per week. If you are a new to Group Exercise at Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance, please ensure you book in to have an initial assessment before participating in your first group class.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services/yoga]
Yoga in Heidelberg West, VIC

Hozho Yoga is a space to return to yourself through breath-led movement, mindful flow, and stillness.

Offering a slow flow fusion yoga practice that weaves together breathwork and guided meditation, each class is designed to support presence, grounding, and overall wellbeing in a calm and welcoming environment.

Meet Your Instructor:

Natasha has been practicing yoga for over 20 years, with a deep dedication to somatic practices, meditation, and breathwork. Her approach is grounded in mindful movement and creating space for connection, balance, and inner awareness.

With a background in psychology and education, Natasha offers a grounded, supportive approach to both group classes and 1:1 sessions.

Natasha’s approach is grounded in mindful movement and creating space for connection, balance, and inner awareness.

Our Classes

Slow Flow Fusion (All Levels)

A slow, breath-led movement practice designed to support strength, mobility, balance, coordination, and flexibility. Each class blends gentle vinyasa, yin-inspired shapes, meditation, and breathwork to create a grounding yet uplifting experience.

All levels welcome, including beginners.

Schedule:
Thursdays
11:00am – 11:50am
Pricing:
$30 per class
Bookings required

1:1 Yoga Therapy

Personalised sessions designed to support your body and mind in a way that meets you where you are.

These sessions may include breathwork, gentle movement, meditation, and somatic practices to support stress, mobility, recovery, and nervous system regulation.

Small Group Strength

A supportive small group strength class focused on personalised progressive overload.

Each person is guided according to their own level, with tailored progressions to build strength, stability, mobility, and confidence over time in a positive, encouraging environment.

Benefits of Yoga

Yoga improves how you feel in your body, how you handle stress, and how you move through everyday life. It’s a practice that supports both physical health and mental wellbeing in a simple, sustainable way.

Move Better in Your Body

Yoga helps release tension and restore natural movement so your body feels freer and less restricted.

Improve flexibility and mobility

Reduce tightness in hips, back, and shoulders

Support healthier posture and spinal alignment

Move with more ease and less stiffness

Improve joint function and range of motion

Build Strength & Stability

Develop strength that supports your body in daily life — without strain or overload.

Build functional, balanced strength

Improve core stability and control

Support joint strength and injury resilience

Develop better balance and coordination

Increase overall physical confidence

Reduce Stress & Reset the Mind

Yoga helps calm the nervous system and creates space from the pressure of daily life.

Reduce stress and physical tension

Improve focus and mental clarity

Support nervous system recovery

Help shift out of “fight or flight” mode

Create a sense of calm and reset

Improve Energy, Recovery & Sleep

Feel more rested, recovered, and ready for your day.

Support better breathing patterns

Improve recovery from training or long workdays

Reduce physical and mental fatigue

Help improve sleep quality

Increase overall energy levels

Move With More Awareness

Yoga improves how you control and understand your body in motion.

Increase body awareness and control

Improve balance and coordination

Develop smoother, more efficient movement patterns

Reduce compensations and asymmetries

Improve confidence in movement

Need help booking?

Our admin team is here to help. If you’re having trouble booking or would prefer a different method, please reach out to us below and we will get back to you asap.

Send an Email

Send a message

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services/knee-hip-osteoarthritis-physio]
Knee & Hip Osteoarthritis Physiotherapy in Heidelberg West, VIC

Don’t let knee or hip pain slow you down—our specialized osteoarthritis treatments help you stay active, pain-free, and in control of your health, so you can keep doing what you love.

Knee and hip pain from osteoarthritis is a common condition we treat and can slow you down or restrict your ability to perform daily tasks.

We are experts in treating knee and hip osteoarthritis and have structured treatment plans to reduce pain and improve your quality of life.

Patients often report reduced quality of life, pain in the morning or after activity, joint stiffness and loss of range of motion, swelling, inflammation of the joint and a reduced ability to perform simple tasks such as getting in/out of a chair or going up or down stairs.

We understand this can be frustrating and our programs are designed to reduce your pain and help you regain your mobility.

Osteoarthritis is a disease of the whole joint, it can affect the joint cartilage as well as the ligaments, muscles and tissue surrounding the joint and we will cover all the aspects of your recovery.

Don’t get held back by knee or hip osteoarthritis. There are effective treatments available for osteoarthritis sufferers, such as the GLA:D program, which is a structured exercise program to decrease pain and improve the strength of your joints. We provide this program and other structured exercise programs designed to get you moving again.

A structured program can target pain relief, functional strength, balance and coordination.

We offer a hands on, non-invasive approach that’s affordable and accessible to help you heal without the need for extensive interventions.

Our specialised services include group strength training classes designed to enhance performance and recovery. We cater to DVA, TAC, and Workcover patients, ensuring accessible and high-quality care for all.

By combining expert knowledge with personalised treatment plans, we empower amateur athletes, weekend warriors, and older athletes to achieve their health and fitness goals efficiently and effectively.

Benefits of participating in our Osteoarthritis programs at Evolution Physiotherapy in Heidelberg West, VIC

Significant reduction in symptom progression

Significant reduction in pain levels

Increased quality of life

Decreased usage of pain medications

Why do your osteoarthritis treatment with us?

Expert clinicians with years of experience

Structured and personalized education and exercise program

Initial assessment where we thoroughly assess your pain

Supportive community and therapists to keep you motivated

Highly experienced and knowledgeable staff

Modern equipment and appropriate instruction

Follow up support

General advice for on health & wellbeing

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services/remedial-massage-therapy]
Remedial Massage Therapy in Heidelberg West, VIC

Experience relief from pain and tension—our expert remedial massage therapists help you recover faster, move freely, and stay active, so you can keep doing what you love without the discomfort holding you back.

We will use techniques such as deep tissue, trigger point therapy and myofascial release to target your problem areas caused by chronic conditions such as back pain, neck pain or joint pain.

And, for those seeking to push their limits and maintain a healthy body, remedial massage can help prevent injuries and speed up recovery.

If you are in pain, have tight or sore muscles and want to manage your recovery better, remedial massage therapy can provide relief from all sorts of muscular aches and pains.

We treat conditions such as muscle strains, tendonitis, sciatica, or tension headaches as well as common areas such as the lower back, neck, shoulders and legs. Remedial massage aims to promote healing and relaxation for targeted pain relief and rehabilitation.

A typical session will start with a brief overview of your problem area followed by a quick assessment so the therapist can tailor your needs accordingly. After your massage we encourage you to stay hydrated and find a place to relax so you can maximise the benefits of your treatment.

We encourage those who are in pain or participate in weekly sporting activities to attend regularly to stay on top of their recovery and performance. We have a holistic approach to your treatment and our therapists may discuss your plan with our physio team in case you require any further examinations or treatment.

Our remedial massage therapists provide:

Deep tissue massage

Sports massage

Relaxation and recovery massage

Why choose Remedial Massage Heidelberg West?

Thorough assessment of your pain points

Qualified and experienced therapists

Relaxed and appropriate environment

A quality service you can rely on

Remedial massage therapy is a fantastic way to recover, wind down or reduce pain or stress.

Benefits of remedial massage therapy at Evolution Physiotherapy in Heidelberg West

Pain Relief and improved movement

Sports performance and maintenance

Rehabilitation and Injury Recovery

Improved Mobility and Function

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services/physiotherapy-for-brazilian-jiu-jitsu]
Physiotherapy for Brazilian Jiu Jitsu in Heidelberg West, VIC

Train hard and recover smart – our specialized physiotherapy for Brazilian Jiu Jitsu athletes helps you manage injuries, optimize performance, and keep showing up on the mats, even when you’re dealing with pain.

Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance has expert clinicians who also happen to be expert Brazilian Jiu Jitsu practitioners.

Achieving a black belt in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu (BJJ) signifies years of dedication, resilience, and an intimate understanding of the sport’s physical and mental challenges. This journey often involves training through injuries, learning to manage pain, and continuously improving technique under physical strain.

When a black belt in BJJ is also a physiotherapist, they bring a unique level of expertise to injury prevention, rehabilitation, and performance optimization for BJJ athletes.

All BJJ athletes who have been on the mat for years have a type of grittiness that keeps them coming back, even despite setbacks due to injury or pain. We understand firsthand the unique demands and injuries that often come with the sport—whether it’s joint strains, ligament tears, or muscle fatigue and pain.

When you combine this experience with the skills and knowledge that come from years of physiotherapy treatment experience, this allows them to guide athletes intelligently through injuries, keeping them on the mats while promoting recovery.

Our physiotherapists have a deep knowledge of pain mechanisms, the healing process, and how to work within the body’s limitations. They are skilled at differentiating between discomfort that can be trained through and pain that signals the need for rest or treatment.

As a BJJ athlete you may be facing the dilemma of wanting to continue training while dealing with injuries, or you may be unsure whether or not you should be training at all.

A black belt and physiotherapist can help athletes design intelligent training modifications to protect injuries while maintaining progress, ensuring that recovery and training happen simultaneously.

Whether it’s adapting rolling strategies, focusing on specific movements, or prioritising technique over intensity, this expert guidance allows athletes to train smart without risking further damage.

Too often we see BJJ athletes sidelined unnecessarily, missing out on beneficial exercise, progress in their technique and keeping in touch with their friends and family. This can be isolating and stun your progress.

Rather than sidelining completely, at Evolution Physiotherapy we offer innovative ways to keep BJJ athletes engaged in the sport. This could include rehabilitative exercises, techniques to reduce the strain on injured areas, or methods to improve overall body mechanics to prevent future injuries.

And, of course attending classes in a manner which will not worsen injury or pain, but will keep you learning, engaged and supported throughout your recovery process.

We understand the unique demands of the sport of Brazilian Jiu Jitsu

Unlike a general physiotherapist, a black belt or experienced BJJ athlete and physiotherapist is intimately familiar with BJJ’s specific demands—grappling, joint locks, throws, and the constant strain on joints and muscles. They understand how the body is positioned during sparring or competition, which gives them unparalleled insight into treating and preventing injuries common in BJJ.

The combination of being “in the game” and holding advanced knowledge in physiotherapy means that a black belt or BJJ athlete physiotherapist is uniquely positioned to help BJJ athletes overcome injuries without compromising their passion for training.

At Evolution Physiotherapy we will provide tailored rehab plans, performance optimization strategies, and ongoing support, ensuring that athletes stay healthy and competitive on the mats.

The fusion of high-level BJJ experience and physiotherapy expertise makes this type of professional an ideal resource for Brazilian Jiu Jitsu athletes who want to keep training, recover smartly, and maintain their peak performance through the highs and lows of injury management and the BJJ journey.

We want to see you back on the mat as soon as possible and treat injuries such as:

Knee pain, ligament and meniscal tears

Post or pre-surgery management and rehab

Neck injuries and neck pain

Lower back pain

Shoulder, elbow and wrist injuries

Injuries from submissions

Nerve pain, sciatica and disc protrusions/bulges

We will liaise with your GP, surgeon and medical team and provide a thorough treatment plan to help you stay healthy, on the mats and get you back to training as quickly as possible.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services/telehealth]
Telehealth in Heidelberg West, VIC

Get the right advice fast to resolve your pain and recovery from injury by using our telehealth physiotherapy service. We offer telehealth consultations as part of our physiotherapy service and it is a great way to connect with your preferred practitioner if distance or illness is preventing you from consulting face to face.

Telehealth consultations provide patients with a consultation through video or telephone instead of face-to-face.

It can be used for remote patient monitoring and to provide clinical advice and information from a distance and most practices in Australia offer telehealth consultations, particularly since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Additionally, we can connect with one or more healthcare providers through an audio and/or video enabled device to consult with your healthcare team in one call.

If you are a patient who is unwell, cannot travel due to illness or needs to be isolated for some reason, telehealth can remove these barriers to make allied health care accessible.

For patients in rural and remote areas or need to travel a great distance to get to their preferred provider, telehealth can allow patients access to vital healthcare and medical services.

Common conditions Telehealth can be used for:

Joint sprains and muscle strains

Strength training and rehab exercise advice

Acute and chronic sports injuries

What are the benefits?

Reduced travel, expense and time away from home

Higher patient reach, due to fewer location barriers

Reduced patient no shows

Real time assistance with difficult cases and emergencies

Improved access to healthcare

Reduced wait time

Improved continuity and quality of care

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services/workcover-ctp]
WorkCover & CTP in Ivanhoe, VIC

Rehabilitate your injury and get back to work fast and pain free with our physiotherapy team at Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance. We provide treatment to WorkCover and CTP patients looking to complete their rehab with a reliable and professional service.

If you have sustained an injury at work, you may be entitled to physiotherapy treatment as part of your WorkSafe claim. WorkSafe can pay the reasonable cost of allied health (Physiotherapy) services when indicated as a result of a work-related injury or illness under the Victorian Workers’s compensation legislation.

At Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance, we understand that this can be a stressful time and that you want to get back to work as quickly as possible, pain free and mobile. With our vast experience and experience dealing with WorkCover cases, we aim to provide the most comprehensive support possible to ensure a quick recovery and smooth journey back to what you love to do most.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services/physio]
Performance Physiotherapy in Heidelberg West, VIC

Stay strong, move better, and live pain-free with personalised fitness and strength training plans that help you manage pain and maintain lifelong mobility.

At Evolution Physiotherapy we structure our services to address the root cause of your pain, not just reducing your symptoms, ensuring long-term relief. If you want long term pain relief and no quick fixes, our team of highly qualified physiotherapists will support you through every stage of recovery.

We do this with thorough and personalised treatment plans, which you will receive at your initial consultation. We tailor a recovery plan just for you, targeting your specific pain and injury to get you back to doing what you love, faster and stronger.

We want to see you strong! With improved mobility and strength. Once we have relieved your pain we will set you up with a thorough strength training program so you can reach that next level.

Physiotherapy treatment has been shown to be successful in avoiding invasive procedures or unnecessary surgery, it can help reduce the reliance on pain medication and we will ensure you are provided a natural, holistic path to recovery alongside the consultation of your medical team.

We want to see you empowered by our treatment plans, that is why we will educate you and provide the knowledge you need to manage and resolve your condition, reducing your dependance on ongoing treatment. Our physiotherapy services are not only designed to decrease your pain and recover from injury, but also to equip you with the strength and resilience to prevent future injuries.

We offer a hands on, non-invasive approach that’s affordable and accessible to help you heal without the need for extensive interventions. Our physiotherapy services are structured to reduce your pain as quickly as possible and optimise your strength, rehab, and performance goals.

We treat common conditions such as:

Sciatica and nerve pain

Neck pain

Shoulder injuries and pain

Postural abnormalities

Hip & groin conditions and injuries

Knee injuries and pain

Running injuries or pain

Muscle strains and tears

Joint sprains or dislocations

Sporting injuries

Tendinopathy (I.e Tennis Elbow Or Achilles strains)

Elbow and Wrist pain

Benefits of Physiotherapy treatment at Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance:

Fast pain relief and thorough diagnosis

Comprehensive education and treatment plans

Strength training, injury prevention and performance

Improved mobility, function and quality of life

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services/strength-training]
Strength Training in Heidelberg West, VIC

Ready to recover stronger and outperform your limits?

Our expert rehab and strength training programs help you bounce back from injuries and keep you at the top of your game.

At Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance we pride ourselves on delivering comprehensive and effective strength training programs.

Strength training can decrease pain and make everyday tasks so much easier. It is not just for sports people or gym junkies, strength training can be of benefit to all individuals young and old, that’s why we are so passionate about it.

Strengthening your muscles and joints will help protect against injuries, it can improve posture and will keep your body resilient as you age. It goes beyond an increase in physical strength, but can also improve your mood and be a complement to your mental health.

Many amateur and high level sports people will use strength training as a means to prepare their body for physical duress that comes from playing common sports such as footy or soccer. It also leads to a reduction in soft tissue injuries as well as an increase in sports performance.

We will customise your plan to suit your goals and current level or ability. Everyone can participate, the program is designed for you only. That is why we keep our classes small and specifically designed to the individual needs. Whether you’re a beginner or an experienced athlete, we can design a program to increase your strength and rehab from an acute or chronic injury.

We have individuals completing programs who want to boost their performance, some want to run a marathon, some want to get back to their chosen sport and some just want to live a longer, more healthy life.

Regular strength training increases your metabolism and can lead to a more resilient, lean, strong and balanced physique. For athletes and weekend warriors, strength training not only builds physical strength but also mental resilience and confidence, empowering you to tackle challenges in life and fitness!

We want to see you getting after it! We want to see you strong and our expert clinicians have the skills and experience to make it happen. We will guide you through safe, effective exercises with expert supervision to ensure proper form, giving you the confidence to progress.

Join a supportive environment and be inspired by your peers, from young adults to our eldest participants you will have the support of a like minded community making training more fun and rewarding.

Strength training is the foundation of long-term health, improving bone density, cardiovascular health, and overall well-being for years to come, we can’t wait to get you started!

Our programs are for those completing physiotherapy treatment, people who want to decrease pain, improve mobility, strength and sports performance.

Some but not all ailments we can manage with strength training:

Acute and chronic pain

Muscle tears and strains

Acute musculoskeletal injuries

Sporting injuries and injury prevention

Longevity and aging well

ACL injuries and ACL reconstruction surgery

Knee pain and knee injuries

Lower back pain or neck pain

Osteoarthritis

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/services/sports-injuries]
Sports Injuries in Heidelberg West, VIC

Train harder, recover faster, and stay ahead of the competition with tailored injury rehab and strength programs designed to optimise your performance. At Evolution Physiotherapy we will guide you from recovery to peak performance with our personalised sports injury recovery plans.

Injuries sustained during sport are common and can lead to missed play time, decrease in activity and even worse, retirement.

We love treating patients who want to get after it, in all aspects of sports and recreation. That is why we are dedicated to seeing you recover and reach your full potential as an amateur, weekend warrior or professional athlete.

Our sports injury physiotherapy recovery plans are suited to those who have chronic ongoing pain that is restricting their performance, or for acute injuries suffered during play.

We value the hard work and dedication you put into your chosen field of play and want to see you back on the park as quickly as possible.

We provide comprehensive diagnosis, treatment and planning to ensure your recovery is as smooth as possible and our physiotherapists love sports just as much as you do. We understand what can be taken away from your life due to injury or pain.

If it’s to return to sport, or simply to participate in the activity you love, we will be with you the whole journey.

Common sports injuries we treat:

ACL rupture

Knee ligament sprains and tears

Knee meniscus injuries and other painful knee conditions

Hip and groin injuries and pain

Muscle strains and tears such as hamstring, calf and quad strains

Shoulder, elbow and wrist pain

Lower back pain and sciatica

Why choose Evo Physio Heidelberg West as your sports injury specialist?

Thorough assessment, diagnosis and treatment planning

Quality patient education and support

Goal setting and objective milestones

Repeated functional testing

Feedback, coaching and motivational enhancement

We treat sports injuries in common sports such as:

AFL rules football

Soccer

Basketball

Tennis

Cricket

Golf

Swimming

Weightlifting/gym

Calaesthetics

Jogging

Running and athletics

Gymnastics

Brazilian Jiu Jitsu

Wrestling

Mixed Martial Arts

Judo

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/classes-and-programs/acl-rehabilitation]
ACL Rehabilitation in Heidelberg, VIC

From the time of injury, to the moment of running back onto the field, we will be at your side assisting you through every step of your ACL rehab journey.

We understand it may be a daunting and overwhelming experience, we are here to support you, answer your questions and give you the reassurance the you can return to your chosen sport, better than ever. ACL injury rehabilitation must be taken seriously, it requires time and dedication to complete all the objectives required to give you the best possible chance of returning to performance, while at the same time preventing recurrence of another ACL injury.

Recurrence of ACL injured knees is high, especially in athletes who do not conduct a thorough treatment plan, aiming for a high LSI (limb symmetry index) >95%, or for those who return to sport too quickly.

That is why at Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance, we provide thorough rehabilitation plans that tick every box possible, ensuring you can be confident in returning to sport, having done the work to give yourself the best chance at a full and complete recovery.

We offer ACL rehab plans for pre and post surgical intervention and non-surgical management of ACL injuries. We provide return to sport testing criteria and a thorough treatment process.

Our ACL Rehabilitation Program is designed to empower you on your journey to recovery and help you regain confidence in your knee strength and stability.

What do we provide to ACL injured patients?

Pre surgical readiness, education and treatment

Post ACLr thorough assessment and planning

Injury education and the outlook of your rehab

Objective measures and specific goals to reach during your rehab

Milestone centered and patient specific

Psychological readiness and preparation

Education, tools and home programming

Return to sport and physical activity readiness

Evidence based objective assessment

Options of 1 or 2 hourly sessions per week with home gym programs and education

Communication between your physio and your medical team

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/classes-and-programs/strength-conditioning]
Strength & Conditioning in Heidelberg, VIC

Take your rehab to the next level and don’t stop at pain free, keep going and improve your performance. That’s what we want to see you achieve during your time at Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance. Not just pain free and mobile, but a better athlete than you were when you came in.

You may have an injury now, but after you are fully recovered, why not take your training to the next level?

Our Strength and Conditioning programs and classes are designed to increase your strength, fitness, stay injury free and increase your performance.

Strength and Conditioning is the term used to describe exercise that’s tailored to an individual’s specific level to increase strength, endurance, power, muscular hypertrophy and cardiovascular fitness.

Our expertly trained clinicians are qualified to conduct strength and conditioning programming and implementation.

We understand the demands of your sport, life and recreational activities and are dedicated to seeing pain and injury free, performing in your chosen field. While designing and conducting programs tailored to reach your specific fitness and strength goals, so you can perform at your best.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/classes-and-programs/glad-knee-and-hip-osteoarthritis-program]
GLA:D Knee and Hip Osteoarthritis Program in Heidelberg, VIC

Take control of your Knee and Hip Osteoarthritis pain now by participating in the GLA:D® program, best first treatment for knee and hip osteoarthritis. Evolution Physiotherapy provides extensive support for Osteoarthritis sufferers by implementing the world renowned and highly effective GLA:D® exercise program.

GLA:D®, from ‘Good Life with osteoArthritis in Denmark’, is an education and exercise program developed by researchers in Denmark for people with hip or knee osteoarthritis symptoms. It was then brought to Australia in 2016 to help Australians with hip or knee osteoarthritis.

Take control of your Osteoarthritis pain today, by enrolling in the GLA:D® program, a 6 week, 12x 1hr, exercise class program.

What are the benefits of the GLA:D program?

Significant reduction in osteoarthritis symptom progression

Significant reduction in pain levels up to 32%

Decreased use of pain medications

Stronger muscles and better balance improved coordination and muscular endurance

When you book for the GLA:D program. You will have an initial consultation with a GLA:D trained physiotherapist. They will gain a thorough history of your condition, perform some simple tests and run you through some exercises. They will answer any questions you have and give you all the information you need to get started.

Why DO the GLA:D® program at Evolution Physiotherapy?

You will get an initial appointment to explain the program and measure your current functional ability

Two education sessions which teach you about OA, its risk factors, treatment options, and self-management strategies

Group exercise sessions twice a week for six weeks to improve your control of the joint, your confidence in the joint and your strength

A review at 3-months with your physiotherapist to discuss progress and goals, and re-measure your functional ability

Completion of a questionnaire on registration with the program, and then again at 3 and 12 months after registration to measure changes in areas such as pain, function, quality of life, and medication use

How do I get started?

Each participant should book an Initial assessment with one of our physiotherapists. In this appointment, the physiotherapist will take an extensive history of your presenting injury, pain and goals you want to achieve. You will then be provided with a personalised program which the physiotherapist will guide you through each class.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/crushing-your-first-marathon-a-comprehensive-beginners-guide-to-completing-your-first-marathon-part-1]
2 months ago

Read Post

Crushing Your First Marathon: A Beginner’s Guide Part 1.

This blog is focused on marathon training but can be very helpful for any runner, with lots of tips and advice for running training. Part 2 will focus on nutrition, gear, advanced training and some race day strategies.

Table of Contents:

1. Introduction

2. Marathon Training for beginners: Crucial basics

3. Setting Your Marathon Goals: From Beginners to Seasoned Runners

4. Mindset: Belief and Discipline

5. Creating your marathon plan: Building your base and mastering your long run

6. Avoiding injury:

Running your first ever marathon is an incredible journey. “Run when you can, walk if you have to, crawl if you must; just never give up.” – Dean Karnazes –

Trust me, no truer statement has ever been said. Let’s hope you don’t have to crawl across the finish line!

The training process itself is an incredible opportunity for self-discovery – there’s a lot of long runs, a lot of hours pounding the pavement and honestly, it’s all worth it, every single time. I’ve done a lot of running in the past myself, including completing a 114km Ultra-marathon.

With the aim of improving, I also did a lot of research on best practice for training and injury prevention to go alongside my physiotherapy training. This allows me to provide you with the best advice available. With the right mindset, preparation, and support, you too can crush your first marathon. Or any running goal for that matter!

If you are injured or have a niggle that won’t go away we recommend getting treatment for this early in your preparation.

If you need more advice on running training, you can book a comprehensive physiotherapy assessment now at Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance.

Marathon training for beginners: Crucial basics

Marathons are 42 kilometres long and the average marathon runner will take around 4-5 hours to get to the finish line. For this kind of commitment, you’ll need a lot of training and should start preparing early.

If you start late, you are likely to run into burn out or injury and won’t finish at all. Depending on your experience and condition, I would recommend giving yourself as much time as possible to train and prepare for a marathon.

Understanding how many weeks to train for a marathon can significantly impact your success on race day. The general recommendation is to train for a marathon for at least 16 to 20 weeks. This timeline allows your body to adapt gradually to the increasing kilometres and intensity of your workouts, reducing the risk of injury and burnout.

The specific duration of your training should also consider your current fitness level, running experience, and your goals for the race. For beginners, opt for a more extended training period, such as 6-12 months, to allow for a more gradual buildup of mileage and the development of essential endurance and strength.

Generally, your training itself should consist of the following:

• Short runs (starting at 5 kilometres and gradually building your way up to 15)

• Long runs (starting at a 10 km run and building to a 32km relaxed-pace jog)

• Cross-training and injury prevention (working other muscle groups like the core and leg strength)

• Focus on increasing your cumulative weekly runs to 60-80km’s in the last 4 months before the race (depending on your fitness and experience). Important, your experience and condition is going to determine your weekly accumulative distance.

• We recommend spreading this over 4 to 5 runs weekly.

• Smaller races: Participate in 5km, 10km and half-marathon races as part of your preparation. This is important experience to get comfortable with race day.

Try to do these runs at a pace that’s comfortable for you such that you can still hold a conversation. That’s how to train for a marathon from scratch. Incorporating a variety of workouts, such as easy runs, tempo runs, long runs, and interval training, can help beginners and advanced runners improve their running efficiency and build the necessary stamina for their first marathon race.

Pay attention to your limits. Always have a rest day every 3 or so training days, increase your distances gradually, and listen to your body while you train. It’s better to cut back a little in response to an overuse injury or soreness than to keep pushing and risk of it worsening.

Everybody is different in this sense, some more experienced runners will know their body quite well and be able to manage through soreness without making it worse.

Most importantly, adding strength training to your routine can make a huge difference to performance, running economy and injury prevention. Basically, the stronger your muscles are, the higher your stamina and endurance will be and the more resilient your body to fatigue and injury.

If you are not doing strength training, start now!

At Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance we can provide you with a personalised strength training plan for your marathon training, we also have group exercise classes available where we have had many runners find success with supplemental strength training.

One more tip – Its ok to walk! Walking at pace can be a good option, especially for beginners, it aids in building your base, increasing your cardiovascular fitness and reducing injury or burn out. So, add some walking in to your plan if you need to.

Setting Your Marathon Goals: From Beginners to Seasoned Runners

Having well-defined goals can provide direction to your training and the discipline to complete your training program day-to-day and week-to-week.

Motivation is temporary and fluctuates – Being consistent and disciplined is what gets training done. Don’t rely on motivation to train – build discipline through habit and routine.

Outlining clear and realistic goals is a fundamental aspect of marathon training. It doesn’t matter whether you’re a complete beginner aiming to complete your first marathon or a seasoned veteran striving for a personal best, well defined goals and a sustainable routine is what will power you in your preparation.

For beginners, the primary goal may be to finish the 42km race, while more experienced runners may have a time-based goal or aspirations to conquer challenging courses.

Let’s use Kenya’s Kelvin Kiptum as an example of a time based goal,
who in 2023 set a record of 2:00:35
, whom in 2023 replaced Eliud Kipchoge as the fastest marathoner. And, most recently Sabastian Kimaru Sawe became the fastest marathoner in history under race conditions, setting a world record of 1:59:30 at the London Marathon on April 26, 2026.

This is of course at the very end of the spectrum, don’t compare yourself to others, it’s your goal which is important.

Here some examples of how you can use short term and long-term goals to maintain a focused and purposeful training routine:

Short-term goals; increasing weekly mileage, improving pace, completing a shorter practice race, practicing hydration and trialling your gear and shoes.

Long-term goals; completing a practice race or marathon, achieving a target finishing time, qualifying for prestigious races, or pursuing a podium finish.

No matter the type/level of runner you are, having a vision of what you want to accomplish in a marathon will drive your training and keep you committed when the going gets tough.

And remember – Discipline over motivation to get the job done. Need help setting goals or staying motivated? Regular check ins or seeking advice may be the difference. We provide this at Evolution Physiotherapy – BOOK NOW!

Mindset: Belief and Discipline

“A quitter never wins, and a winner never quits.” – Napoleon Hill –

Remember what I said about discipline? If you aim is to finish, that is your win. But if you stop your training, because “it’s too hard” or “I don’t think I can do it” or “I’m too busy” you may never even get to the start line.

These thoughts are going to come up in your head.. all the time. Ignore them and stay focused on the next run.

You started, so don’t quit. That’s the key to completing your goals.

You must believe you will cross that finish line!

You have a long road ahead of you, discipline will get your there. It’s ok to have nerves and doubts, embrace them.

You have nothing to lose. What matters is having a plan, sticking to your plan and building habit that can overcome the fluctuations of motivation.

Creating your marathon plan: Building your base and mastering your long run

The significance of a solid foundation can’t be underestimated and you should consider the importance of building a strong running base before upping the miles.

The shorter runs, and long runs in your training programme will add experience and confidence to you as a runner. In addition to any shorter races or fun runs.

Building a solid base may also include incorporating strength training into your prep. Strength training is something massively overlooked by most runners. You need to build a body that can withstand the demands of your run training. Incorporating exercises that target your core, glutes, and legs will help to prevent injuries and improve performance.

My personal experience taught me that strength training significantly reduced my risk of injuries and improved my overall performance. If you’re not sure where to start, feel free to reach out to us to get a plan designed specifically for you.

To master the long run – increase the distance slowly. The long run is the cornerstone of marathon training. It’s where you build the physical and mental resilience needed for the marathon distance. Start with a manageable distance and increase gradually. As you add miles each week, it will become less daunting.

The art of pacing is a skill you’ll refine over time. Avoid the temptation to go too fast, too soon. It’s easy to get caught up in excitement during long runs, but pacing yourself is essential to prevent burnout. My advice to all beginner runners: “always start slower than you think you should.”

Nutrition and hydration is also an important factor and fuelling properly can make or break your training. Experiment with different energy gels, chews, and hydration strategies to find what works best for you when it comes to race prep.

Choosing the Right Marathon Training Plan

Selecting the right training plan is one of the most important parts of preparing for a marathon. Your plan should match your current fitness level, running experience, and personal goals. For beginners, programs that use run-walk intervals can be a great way to gradually build endurance while reducing the risk of injury.

Progress takes time, and it’s important to respect the stage you are currently at. For some people, it may take around three months to progress from little or no running to comfortably completing a 5km run, and another four months or more to build toward a first marathon. Rushing the process or trying to progress too quickly can increase the risk of burnout, calf strains, hamstring or quadriceps injuries, and knee or hip pain.

A training plan that is too difficult can also lead to inconsistent training. Missing sessions regularly or constantly stopping and restarting training can create a “yo-yo” effect, which places additional stress on the body and increases injury risk. Consistency is more important than perfection.

Avoiding injury

First, if you are injured or pain is slowing you down its important to get advice and a treatment plan in place to resolve the issue. Experience runners may be able to train through pain or injury, but for a beginner we recommend getting advice early so it doesn’t snowball into a larger issue.

Having a consistent running volume week to week is a key component of reducing the risk of injury and finding the balance between load you can tolerate and have enough time to recover will go a long way in keeping you on track and injury free.

Balancing Training and Recovery

Effective marathon training is not about pushing hard every day. Recovery is just as important as the training itself. A well-structured plan should include both running sessions and dedicated rest days to allow your body to repair, adapt, and become stronger.

Overtraining is one of the most common mistakes runners make and can lead to fatigue, declining performance, and injury. Prioritising recovery will help you train more consistently and perform better long term.

This comes back to being disciplined in your program and consistent in your weekly volume.

Recovery Strategies

Some of the best ways to support recovery include:

Consistent, quality sleep

Adequate protein intake, hydration and overall nutrition

Managing stress levels

Yoga or mobility work

Stretching

Massage

Meditation

Relaxing and allowing your body to switch off

Recovery looks different for everyone, but anything that helps you feel rested and refreshed can contribute positively to your training.

Understanding Different Types of Running Sessions

Most marathon training plans include a variety of running workouts, each designed to improve a different aspect of performance.

Long Runs

Long runs help your body adapt to spending extended periods on your feet and prepare you for marathon distance running.

Tempo Runs

Tempo runs improve endurance and teach your body to sustain a challenging but manageable pace over time.

Speed Workouts

Speed sessions, such as intervals or hill repeats, improve running efficiency, speed, and cardiovascular fitness.

When introducing new types of workouts, especially speed training, it’s important to progress gradually and allow your body time to adapt. Improvements happen over time, so patience and consistency are key.

Strength Training for Injury Prevention

Strength training is one of the most effective ways to reduce injury risk and improve running performance. A stronger body is more resilient to the repetitive demands of marathon training.

Benefits of strength training for runners include:

Improved muscle strength and endurance

Better joint stability

Enhanced coordination and balance

Improved running economy and efficiency

Reduced risk of common running injuries

Strength training should complement your running program, not compete with it. Properly balancing gym work with running intensity is important to avoid overload.

Evolution Physiotherapy and Performance
, we specialise in strength training for runners and can help design a personalised program to support your marathon preparation.

Beginner Marathon Training Roadmap:

This is a simple plan you can use to get your marathon training started!

Months 1–3: Build Your Base

Focus on developing consistency and aerobic fitness.

Run 3–4 times per week

Sessions of 30–45 minutes at an easy pace

Gradually increase running duration

Include cross-training such as walking, cycling, or weight training

Months 4–6: Introduce Speed and Increase Volume

Begin building endurance and introducing higher-intensity sessions.

Run 4–5 times per week

Sessions of 45–60 minutes

Add 1–2 speed sessions per week:

Interval training

Hill repeats

Balance strength training carefully with harder running sessions

Months 7–9: Build Marathon Endurance

Increase training volume and prepare for longer distances.

Run 5–6 times per week

Sessions of 60–75 minutes

Add a weekly long run

Gradually increase long-run distance each week, building toward 20–22 miles (32–35km)

Months 10–12: Taper and Prepare for Race Day

Reduce training load to allow your body to recover before the marathon.

Reduce mileage and intensity

Focus on hydration, nutrition, and recovery

Continue strength training to maintain strength and mobility

Need Guidance Along the Way?

Training for a marathon can feel overwhelming, but having the right plan and support can make the process far more manageable and enjoyable.

If you’d like personalised guidance, injury management, or a strength program tailored to runners, the team at
is here to help.

Get started today – Book an appointment.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/unleashing-the-benefits-of-bjj-strength-and-conditioning-programs-for-jiu-jitsu-enthusiasts]
2 years ago

Jiu-Jitsu, often referred to as BJJ (Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu), is a martial art that demands both physical prowess and mental acuity. While it’s an incredibly rewarding discipline, practitioners often face the risk of injury. This is where the unique role of our BJJ strength and conditioning program becomes invaluable because we help you prevent injuries, build resilience and elevate your game.

Prevention is Better than Cure – BJJ Strength and Conditioning Program

One of the key contributions of physiotherapy to Jiu Jitsu is injury prevention. That’s why a well-designed BJJ strength and conditioning program is essential to prepare your body for the extremely challenging demands of the sport.

Jiu-Jitsu demands swift, unpredictable motions, heightening the risk of injury. Our BJJ physio in Heidelberg West counters this by recommending a blend of strength and flexibility exercises; strength training safeguards joints, while flexibility routines, like yoga, enhance agility. This balanced approach, incorporating yoga and strength exercises, effectively fortifies the body against typical Jiu-Jitsu injuries.

In summary, your BJJ strength and conditioning program is customised and tailored to your specific needs, focusing on three key areas: flexibility, strength and endurance.

Enhancing joint mobility and muscle flexibility improves performance and reduces injury risk.

Building core strength to provide better control and power during movements.

Increasing muscular endurance to sustain longer training sessions.

BJJ Physio in Heidelberg West – Your Partner in Jiu-Jitsu Wellness

Our BJJ physio in Heidelberg West understands the unique demands of Jiu-Jitsu and is committed to being your partner in health, helping you stay injury-free on the mats. Whether you’re a beginner or a seasoned practitioner, our tailored BJJ strength and conditioning program and expert guidance can make a significant difference in your journey.

Remember, in Jiu-Jitsu, staying injury-free is as crucial as mastering the techniques. Embrace the support of our BJJ physio in Heidelberg West and enjoy a safer, more fulfilling practice. Your body – and your future self – will thank you for it!

for further information.

Learn more about our Physiotherapy services

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/maximise-your-athletic-potential-with-a-strength-and-conditioning-physio]
Have you ever wondered how to elevate your game to the next level? The strength and conditioning physios at our Heidelberg West Physio clinic specialise in developing exercise programs that unlock your full athletic potential. We assess your strengths and weaknesses and pinpoint areas for improvement, ensuring a balanced and systematic approach to your physical development.

Five Benefits of a Strength and Conditioning Physio

A strength and conditioning physio does more than rehabilitate injuries. We understand the specific physical demands of your sport and craft a customised exercise program to match your goals. This personalised plan is your roadmap to reaching peak performance.

Injury Prevention: Your physio identifies areas of weakness or imbalance in your body and designs exercises to strengthen these areas. This proactive approach helps prevent common injuries associated with sports and physical activities.

Enhanced Performance: Your strength and conditioning physio customises a program to improve specific athletic skills such as strength, power, speed, and endurance. This targeted approach ensures your training is directly relevant to your sport.

Personalised Training Plans: Based on your fitness, performance goals, and history of injuries, your Heidelberg West physio develops a personalised training plan that caters to your unique physical capabilities and goals.

Recovery and Rehabilitation: If you’re recovering from an injury, your strength and conditioning physio is crucial in the rehabilitation process. They help to expedite your recovery and facilitate a safe and effective return to playing sports.

Holistic Approach to Athletic Development: Your strength and conditioning physio takes a holistic approach to your athletic development. They focus on physical training and offer guidance on nutrition, rest, and recovery strategies.

Find Your Strength Coach Near Me

Are you searching for a ‘strength coach near me’ in Heidelberg West? Look no further. Our team of experienced strength and conditioning physios are here to guide you every step of the way in your athletic development. Transform your performance and reach new heights in your sporting career with our expert guidance and support. Let’s embark on this journey together!

---

[SOURCE: https://www.evophysiotherapy.com.au/our-team/benjamin-butler-bonnice]
Meet Senior Physiotherapist & Director Benjamin Butler-Bonnice

Managing Director & Senior Physiotherapist

Meet Benjamin:
Qualifications:
Special Interests:

Ben is a qualified physiotherapist who completed a Bachelor of Health Science and Master of Physiotherapy Practice at La Trobe University, graduating in 2016. Since then, Ben has primarily worked in private practice and during this time also gained experience working with NICA (National institute in circus arts), providing physiotherapy treatment, rehabilitation and strength and conditioning plans to circus athletes.

Ben’s interest in strength and conditioning stems from a 15yr career as a personal trainer before becoming a physiotherapist. This experience has allowed Ben to provide thorough and comprehensive rehabilitation plans for common sporting, recreational and musculoskeletal injuries.

Ben has extensive experience in treating people with osteoarthritis, knee pain and knee injuries, as well as neck and back pain and has a passion for treating Brazilian Jiu Jitsu athletes. Ben believes in an active approach to physiotherapy treatment while incorporating massage, dry needling and mobilisation techniques to decrease pain and improve function.

When Ben isn’t in the clinic he is spending time with his family and children or coaching at his Jiu-Jitsu club, Jean Jacques Machado BJJ Melbourne which he owns and operates. Ben is a black belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and this experience combined with his physiotherapy background has enabled him to treat complex conditions that many BJJ athletes encounter.

Ben enjoys treating people from all walks of life, from young athletes to seniors, BJJ athletes and folks with common musculoskeletal ailments.

Ben’s objectives for his clients:

Provide a diagnosis and treatment plan

Decrease pain

Improve strength and fitness

Provide a positive patient experience, satisfaction and understanding

Improve the patients overall performance and help them reach their goals

Master of physiotherapy practice (MPhysioPrac)

Bachelor of health science, human anatomy and physiology (BHlthSc)

Australian Physiotherapy Association member

GLA:D Knee and hip osteoarthritis program qualified

Australian Strength and Conditioning Association (ASCA) – level 1

Diploma Sports Coaching and Development

Certificate 3 and 4 in Personal Training

15 years experience in personal training aiding clients in weight loss, strength training, sports performance, rehabilitation and lifestyle changes

8 years physiotherapy experience in private practice, circus arts and brazilian jiu-jitsu athletes

Has worked with many professional, amateur and recreational athletes and weekend warriors

Experienced with TAC, workcover, return to work claims

Using strength training alongside manual therapy to decrease pain and improve function quickly.

Providing comprehensive strength training programs for people who want to reach that extra level of performance

Treating and coaching Brazilian Jiu Jitsu athletes through pain and injury allowing them to get back on the mat, train longer, safer, with less pain and get more mat time.

Make an Appointment with Benjamin

Work with Benjamin today. He is here to help!