[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/]
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

GP-Obstetrician, Principal cosmetic doctor

Dr. Liz Golez

Dr Liz Golez's Aesthetic goals on all her patients are to enhance their best features with multimodal treatments using injectables, threads, and energy-based devices (both non-invasive and minimally invasive) to achieve your beauty goals safely.  Dr Liz learned from both Cosmetic Doctors and Plastic Surgeons Overseas, who are experts on their fields (in New York, Korea, and Europe) to offer state of the art treatments at the flagship clinic at Bondi Junction, Sydney, Australia.

She has dedicated her medical career on caring for women’s health for more than 2 decades and a half now.  Dr Liz is a Key Opinion Leader of InMode Women’s Health platform EmpowerRF.  She has been quoted in several magazines to inspire women and raise awareness on cosmetic gynaecology and its preventive effects on pelvic floor weakness and incontinence. She is a pioneer in offering non-invasive labiaplasty or ‘designer vagina’ in Australia.

See Dr Liz's Specialist Registration here

Follow @Drlizgolez

Dr. Liz's Favorite Treatments

Threadlifting using PDO and PLLA threads (Dr Kwon, Korea)

Lip fillers (Julie Horne and Dr Tim Pearce, Europe)

O-shot®️(Dr Runels, New York, USA)

RFAL, Aviva (Dr P Rovatti, Italy)

See Dr Liz's Articles & Interviews

Your Safe Haven for Cosmetics

Comfortable and safe place where women can be open and honest without being judged. This is your safe haven on anything from cosmetics to women's health issues.

Our Location

Start Your Beauty Journey Here

Book an appointment today for a full face & wellness assessment and a bespoke treatment.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/dr-liz]
By Treatments

Morpheus8

Collagen Stimulation (Forma)

Aviva (Radiofrequency-assisted Lipolysis)

EMS (Electric Muscle Stimulation)

Pure PRP (Platelet Rich Plasma) by Emcyte®

Prescription-Only Cosmetic Treatment

Biostimulator

Prescription-only Injectables

Microneedling

Surgitron Mole Removal

General Treatments & Consultation

View all treatment

MEDIA

Dr Liz in Media

Insights

Expand menu

Hide menu

Lift Aesthetics

Insignts & FAQs

find us here

50 Spring St,Bondi JunctionNSW 2022, AustraliaClick to view on map+61 9369 3326

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/treatments]
Browse Our Treatments

Aviva

Hydrafacial for congested skin.

Biostimulator and bio regeneration

Dermapen4 Microneedling

Laser for pigmentation, hair removal and collagen boost

More removal and skin tags

General Treatments

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/morpheus8]
Morpheus8 Skin Tightening & Remodelling
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Morpheus 8 is a Microneedling device that utilises Radiofrequency to remodel and contour the face and body via subdermal adipose remodeling. This ablative fractional treatment  penetrates deep into the skin and targets fat to contract and dissolve. This achieves a smoother and sleeker appearance on the skin. This treatment is great for skin rejuvenation, contouring, cellulites, stretch marks, scars, hyperhidrosis and skin laxity of the stomach or knees.

Treatment Areas

Any areas that can benefit from skin renewal.
Lower and upper eyelid, smile lines,
forehead, cheeks. Virtually any areas that exhibit wrinkles, discoloration or acne scars.

How many treatments will I need?

It is recommended to have a Morpheus 8 treatment once a month as it takes 4 weeks to make new collagen. Depending on your concern, a series of 3 treatments minimum is required to achieve the best results.

How long does Morpheus 8 last?

It takes 4 weeks to form new collagen and elastin.  During the first 4 weeks post treatment, the skin will be remodelling deep into the subcutaneous layer of the tissue and will continue to make changes for up to 3 months. Once the remodelling has occurred, you may opt for a 2nd treatment to further your improvement. However, even though morpheus 8 can help improve  the skin's condition, we are still moving forward in the ageing process but it does give you a new starting point and it can help prevent certain skin conditions from forming again and it can also slow down the ageing process.

Is Morpheus 8 painful?

Lift Aesthetics will work with you to ensure that you are as comfortable as possible during your treatment. We use prescription grade numbing cream and offer "Happy Gas" to assist with any anxiety or discomfort you may feel during treatment.

Why are adjustable depths of the microneedles important?

By adjusting the depth of the needles, a TRAINED practitioner can use the Morpheus 8 to come up with a customized treatment plan unique to every patient and his concerns. The most common reasons patient  gets Morpheus :

-improve skin texture (superficial effects)

-supporting skin tightening and tone

-pores

-collagen and elastin stimulation/banking (deep effects)

-treatment around the eyes, face, jawline, neck , lower face, abdomen, cellulites, stretch marks and body (buttocks and female wellness).

As our skin ages, the Fibroseptal Network starts to deteriorate resulting to excess skin with loss of support.  A positive’ skin  pinch test’ shows how much you have lost (collagen and elastin).  Mopheus8 is a safe tool to use for collagen and elastin stimulation. It has  a  tightening  effect on your skin, in turn improving laxity & skin tone.

How often is the maintenance?

Generally every 12-18 months.

What is the down time for Morpheus 8?

You can expect swelling, redness and possible spot bruising as it is causing a controlled injury to get your collagen and elastin jump started. This can last for 3-5 days. For the first 3 days, you will be instructed on what products to apply to the treated area. After 3 days, you can apply sunscreen and mineral make - up. Day 4-5 your skin may or may not flake and after Day 5-7, your skin will start to go back to usual. Some patients forms crusts on their skin, especially on the neck, where healing is slow. Allow them to fall off on their own.  On this instance, we advise patients to hydrate their skin with certain products for better healing.

This section doesn’t currently include any content. Add content to this section using the sidebar.

Not sure which treatment to book?
Contact us for a consultation today.

call us +61 2 9369 3326

By adjusting the depth of the needles, a TRAINED practitioner can use the Morpheus 8 to come up with a customized treatment plan unique to every patient and his concerns. The most common reasons patient  gets Morpheus :-improve skin texture (superficial effects)-supporting skin tightening and tone-pores-collagen and elastin stimulation/banking (deep effects)-treatment around the eyes, face, jawline, neck , lower face, abdomen, cellulites, stretch marks and body (buttocks and female wellness).As our skin ages, the Fibroseptal Network starts to deteriorate resulting to excess skin with loss of support.  A positive’ skin  pinch test’ shows how much you have lost (collagen and elastin).  Mopheus8 is a safe tool to use for collagen and elastin stimulation. It has  a  tightening  effect on your skin, in turn improving laxity & skin tone.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/forma]
Forma by InMode – Skin Tightening
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Women's Health

What is Women's Health?

This treatment utilises Bipolar RF ElectroThermal Heat via an intravaginal handpiece to improve mucosal tightening, corrects pH and vaginal tightening and rejuvenation.
Also recommended to young patients who started to feel dry from changes in the pH in the vagina (those on COCP, Antibiotics, etc).
Minimally invasive techniques such as Bipolar RF has emerged used temperature- controlled bipolar mechanism to heat tissues to target temp of 40-45 degrees C. This controlled energy delivery leads to an inflammatory cascade initiating neo collagenesis, angiogenesis, and elastogenesis for skin tightening boost.

Recommended to

Abnormal pH (symptoms include recurrent vaginal discharge, no cause), postpartum, for scars after delivery, vaginal rejuvenation or preventative purpose. It can improve genital itch, manage incontinence incontinence and several other genito - urinary symptoms experience in several phases of womanhood.

Recommend 3 sessions, monthly then yearly maintenance.

Duration of the procedure: 20 min

MORE INFORMATION

Contraindication
Pacemaker, abnormal vaginal bleeding, pelvic cancer

Anaesthesia
Not needed

Pain
Very minimal, Often described as if they are getting a warm bath.

Post-procedure

Nothing inside the vagina for the next day.

You will feel warm on the areas treated the night after the procedure, you can put ice on it

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/aviva-rfal]
Aviva RFAL – Non-Surgical Vaginal Rejuvenation
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

RFAL (Radiofrequency-assisted Lipolysis) using a non-aspirating cannula to dissolve fat, tighten skin and contact the fibroseptal network from within.  There is collagen and elastin stimulation with the radiofrequency energy for intimate wellness and health.  Some patients use this treatment as a first step towards 'labial puffing'*.

RFAL using Aviva is a non-surgical, minimally invasive procedure using local anaesthesia in  the clinic.  Patients are required to use compression shorts straight away after the procedure for the next few days to bring the swelling down.  Ideally schedule your procedure after your period or mid-cycle to avoid fluid collection around period time.

Common and expect swelling, discomfort, bruising, blisters from shingles (if prone), redness and moistness around the  injection site for a few hours or overnight.  Some may develop persistent swelling (especially when the procedure is done during period time, but this will totally go away and never come back).  Rare side-effects are scarring, temporary numbness and tingling from nerve injury are very uncommon.

Procedure is done once only.

But since loss of collagen, elastin, fat and cell changes still happen with age, combination treatments with prescription medication and use of other energy devices might be necessary.

*'Labial puffing' is a non-surgical procedure that adds volume, hydration and fullness to the labia majora using prescription injections, or through fat transfer from another part of the body.  Restoring volume and support after volume loss due to ageing, drastic weight loss and childbirth will improve concerns such as dyspareunia (pain during intercourse),dryness and irritation especially when wearing tight gym clothes.

How is Aviva (RFAL) different from traditional liposuction?

Liposuction is a surgical procedure, requiring a heavier investment in terms of time, money and recovery. In contrast, RFAL (radio frequency assisted lipolysis) is applied with a cannula to gently heat and remodel tissue at a subcutaneous level. It’s an aspiration-free procedure, meaning body fat isn’t suctioned out like it would be in liposuction, and results in a far less invasive procedure to achieve fat ablation.

As opposed to removing large volumes of fat which can result in secondary skin laxity, Aviva focuses on refining and tightening the soft tissue in a controlled way. Aviva RFAL treatments in Sydney are done without surgical incisions and are completed in a controlled setting at our clinic and can be completed with local anaesthetic, after which recovery will be faster and less intensive than with conventional surgery.

What areas of the body can be treated with Aviva in Sydney clinics?

At Lift Clinic, Aviva RFAL treatments in Sydney will be on a case by case basis after an initial consultation. However, the major benefit of Aviva is that it’s been used across a broad range of more delicate areas, including the external genital area, where it may help address concerns like skin laxity and changes in the texture of the skin’s tissue. Whether it’s for improving skin condition after childbirth, natural changes that result from the ageing process or weight fluctuation, Aviva offers a more custom and personalised treatment. If you are unsure whether your individual concerns are compatible with this
treatment
focus, our team can help you with an initial
consultation

Who is a suitable candidate for Aviva RFAL treatment?

When completing Aviva RFAL treatments in our Sydney clinic, our most common clientele include patients seeking a minimally invasive means of improving their general comfort or appearance of their external genitals, without the need for surgery. Typically, it’s used to address concerns like changes in the skin’s laxity, an enlargement in the soft tissues or changes that affect everyday confidence or comfort. An initial consultation would be completed before any procedures are booked, and if Aviva isn’t the right option for you, we can guide you through other options that are more suited to your unique anatomy and aesthetic goals.

What results and improvements can I expect after Aviva?

Each patient is different, though the changes most commonly noted typically include gradual improvements in the skin tissue’s tightness, with more sculpted contours. While the results will be noticeable shortly after the treatment, the results continue to improve in the following weeks and months, with many of our Aviva Sydney patients noting increased comfort wearing their clothing and an improved appearance.

How long is recovery after Aviva (RFAL) treatment?

Each treatment and recovery journey is different, and results will evolve over time. One of the key benefits of Aviva RFAL in contrast with surgical procedures is that recovery is usually quicker as the treatment involves very small entry points and is performed under local anaesthetic as opposed to under general anaesthetic. You may experience low level swelling, tenderness, or sensitivity initially, which we can help you manage though these symptoms usually abate within a few days of your treatment.

Are the results from Aviva permanent?

Aviva RFAL treatments are designed to deliver results similar to surgical procedures, though the longevity of any treatment largely comes down to your skin’s condition and the natural ageing process. Over time, factors like age, childbirth, weight fluctuations, or menopause, can reduce the visible changes you initially experience. However, with proper aftercare, supportive treatment like
fillers
and additional support after your procedure, your results can last for years to come.

What risks or side effects are associated with Aviva RFAL?

Any procedure comes with some potential risks, though those associated with Aviva RFAL treatments in our Sydney clinic are minimal. Seeing a qualified practitioner like the team at Lift Clinic helps to mitigate risk. Generally, the most common side effects are immediately after the treatment and may include temporary swelling, bruising, tenderness or mild discomfort. We can discuss these risks with you before the treatment and will give you aftercare instructions to keep the area clean to reduce the chances of infection or irritation.

How much does Aviva RFAL treatment cost in Sydney?

Pricing for Aviva RFAL in Sydney at the Lift Clinic varies depending on individual anatomy, treatment complexity and your aesthetic goals. We don’t include pricing on the
treatment booking
form as we’ll consult with you in person to give you an initial quote and a treatment plan before any procedures are undertaken. This ensures you have clarity around costs before proceeding and can make a decision that feels right for you.

AVIVA RFAL

This content is restricted to people 18 years and over, it contains graphic nudity which may offend. By clicking "I Agree" you confirm that you are the required age.

I AGREE – I am over 18.

Liposuction is a surgical procedure, requiring a heavier investment in terms of time, money and recovery. In contrast, RFAL (radio frequency assisted lipolysis) is applied with a cannula to gently heat and remodel tissue at a subcutaneous level. It’s an aspiration-free procedure, meaning body fat isn’t suctioned out like it would be in liposuction, and results in a far less invasive procedure to achieve fat ablation. As opposed to removing large volumes of fat which can result in secondary skin laxity, Aviva focuses on refining and tightening the soft tissue in a controlled way. Aviva RFAL treatments in Sydney are done without surgical incisions and are completed in a controlled setting at our clinic and can be completed with local anaesthetic, after which recovery will be faster and less intensive than with conventional surgery.

At Lift Clinic, Aviva RFAL treatments in Sydney will be on a case by case basis after an initial consultation. However, the major benefit of Aviva is that it’s been used across a broad range of more delicate areas, including the external genital area, where it may help address concerns like skin laxity and changes in the texture of the skin’s tissue. Whether it’s for improving skin condition after childbirth, natural changes that result from the ageing process or weight fluctuation, Aviva offers a more custom and personalised treatment. If you are unsure whether your individual concerns are compatible with this treatment focus, our team can help you with an initial consultation.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/ems-tone-vtone]
EMS & VTone Muscle Toning Treatments
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Electric Muscle Stimulation (EMS) uses electrical impulses to induce a muscular contraction in order to strengthen weak muscles, reduce swelling, relieve pain, and aid in the healing of wounds.

Tone - EMS

Recommended on the abdomen, arms, legs and buttocks.

VTone - EMS

EMS for pelvic floor re-training, neuromuscular stimulation for pelvic floor muscle strengthening.
Tone is a powerful device that stimulates the pelvic floor muscles.  It is equivalent to  thousands of Kegel’s or pelvic floor mucle exercises.

How does EMS Tone and VTone treatment work for muscle strengthening?

Both devices utilise the same advanced Electrical Muscle Stimulation (EMS) technology, though through slightly different application methods. The EMS serves to induce deep, involuntary muscle contractions which support muscle recovery when the target area has been weakened. Both devices can support muscle recovery in a way that can be used alone, or concurrently with physical therapy. The way they differ is their application areas.

Tone targets key muscle groups like the abdomen or buttocks to strengthen and firm underlying muscles. After successive treatments, Tone can help improve muscle strength and definition. VTone is designed to deliver gentle EMS to the pelvic floor through an intravaginal device. Both treatments engage the body’s natural muscular response mechanisms, helping to support normal function and structure to improve strength and control without needing to exercise them manually.

What results can I expect from VTone for pelvic floor health?

For patients seeking pelvic floor support and strength, VTone can aid in improving concerns like urinary incontinence, urge incontinence, and muscle laxity. It works with the body’s innate abilities to heal and strengthen muscle over time, and over a series of sessions, patients often experience improved pelvic floor responsiveness and functional support. This not only leads to improved comfort and support, but also greater levels of confidence. When you’re looking for an electrical muscle stimulation clinic in Sydney, Lift Clinic will be able to guide you regarding treatment times, sessions, and give you a custom plan.

Who is a suitable candidate for Tone and VTone treatments?

Tone and VTone are both generally suitable for individuals seeking a non-invasive or minimally invasive solution to strengthen muscles or support pelvic floor function. Tone is a universally applicable technology that’s especially ideal for those looking to improve muscle tone and core strength, particularly in the abdomen or buttocks.

VTone is suited to patients who are more specifically aiming to rehabilitate and strengthen their pelvic floor muscles. Both can be utilised independently, or together in consecutive
. They’re especially relevant treatments for those experiencing muscle laxity due to ageing, menopause, or postpartum changes. As with any treatment, the team at Lift Clinic will have a full consultation with you beforehand and we recommend speaking to your doctor prior to your time with us.

How many EMS/VTone sessions are recommended for best results?

Depending on your unique condition and anatomy, we’ll do an initial
consultation
to give you the best possible answer and a custom treatment plan. Generally speaking, most patients will need around 6 to 8 sessions for optimal results. Each session is spaced around a week apart, with each one supporting and improving on prior results. We can also guide you regarding followup, maintenance appointments after
your treatment plan
for EMS in Sydney and your initial treatment plan is complete.

Are Tone or VTone treatments uncomfortable or painful?

Both Tone and VTone are designed to deliver effective muscle stimulation in a way that’s as controlled and comfortable as possible. Different patients will experience the treatment differently, though generally note it feels like a sensation of strong but tolerable muscle contractions. Your practitioner can adjust and refine the intensity for your comfort throughout where needed, and there’s no downtime after the treatment is complete, meaning you can quickly return to your daily routines immediately after.

What’s the difference between Tone, VTone, and other muscle stimulation devices?

Tone and VTone stand apart due to the fact they’re engineered by InMode, who design advanced clinical devices that have been thoroughly tested. In contrast with basic muscle stimulation devices or at-home kits, these devices are professional-grade technologies that you can only access in a clinical setting for EMS in Sydney like Lift Clinic. They’re engineered for deeper, more targeted muscular contractions and have been designed for specific muscle groups to achieve the optimal results.

Can Tone or VTone help with postpartum recovery?

Yes, both Tone and VTone are highly beneficial and specifically indicated for postpartum recovery, after you’ve been cleared for treatments by your GP. Tone assists in rebuilding abdominal strength following pregnancy-related concerns like weakened abdominal muscles by stimulating the deep core muscles without manual exercise.

VTone complements this by working on the pelvic floor, which may become weakened during pregnancy and childbirth. Used in conjunction, they deliver postpartum patients a comprehensive, non-invasive approach to supporting muscle function.

What is the downtime or recovery process after VTone or Tone sessions?

After your VTone and Tone treatments are complete, you’ll be able to go back to your routine immediately as neither device has any downtime post-treatment.

Both devices utilise the same advanced Electrical Muscle Stimulation (EMS) technology, though through slightly different application methods. The EMS serves to induce deep, involuntary muscle contractions which support muscle recovery when the target area has been weakened. Both devices can support muscle recovery in a way that can be used alone, or concurrently with physical therapy. The way they differ is their application areas. Tone targets key muscle groups like the abdomen or buttocks to strengthen and firm underlying muscles. After successive treatments, Tone can help improve muscle strength and definition. VTone is designed to deliver gentle EMS to the pelvic floor through an intravaginal device. Both treatments engage the body’s natural muscular response mechanisms, helping to support normal function and structure to improve strength and control without needing to exercise them manually.

Tone and VTone are both generally suitable for individuals seeking a non-invasive or minimally invasive solution to strengthen muscles or support pelvic floor function. Tone is a universally applicable technology that’s especially ideal for those looking to improve muscle tone and core strength, particularly in the abdomen or buttocks. VTone is suited to patients who are more specifically aiming to rehabilitate and strengthen their pelvic floor muscles. Both can be utilised independently, or together in consecutive treatments. They’re especially relevant treatments for those experiencing muscle laxity due to ageing, menopause, or postpartum changes. As with any treatment, the team at Lift Clinic will have a full consultation with you beforehand and we recommend speaking to your doctor prior to your time with us.

Yes, both Tone and VTone are highly beneficial and specifically indicated for postpartum recovery, after you’ve been cleared for treatments by your GP. Tone assists in rebuilding abdominal strength following pregnancy-related concerns like weakened abdominal muscles by stimulating the deep core muscles without manual exercise. VTone complements this by working on the pelvic floor, which may become weakened during pregnancy and childbirth. Used in conjunction, they deliver postpartum patients a comprehensive, non-invasive approach to supporting muscle function.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/platelet-rich-plasma]
Platelet Rich Plasma – Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) is an injectable treatment by which a person’s own blood is used. Platelets are fundamental in the process of tissue healing, and the growth of new cells.

PRP encourages collagen production, regenerates the skin tissue, and effectively reactivates your cells into rejuvenating themselves.

The release of growth factors supports the healing process. PRP softens fine lines and wrinkles, tightens the skin, and improves skin tone and texture.

How is PRP administered?

The treatment of PRP involves a portion of blood, collected from
the individual patient into a syringe. The collected blood is then rotated down in a special centrifuge to separate its components. The platelet rich plasma is then reinjected, and/or micro-needled back into the skin.

How long does a PRP treatment take?

Typically, a PRP treatment takes about an hour to complete. This
depends on if the PRP is administered through injections only, and/or micro-needled into the skin. This timeframe includes an additional 30 minutes for the blood to be drawn and spun in the centrifuge, and topical numbing to be applied.

Do PRP injections hurt?

Some mild discomfort may be felt while the PRP is being reinjected. The sensation usually felt is a burning or tingling sensation. This sensation only lasts a few minutes after the PRP injected.

We ensure our patients are comfortable throughout the entire PRP treatment and apply topical numbing cream and ice to reduce any discomfort.

When will I begin to see results from a PRP treatment?

Usually, patients notice tightening and a more even tone to their skin in a week or two after PRP injections. These results continue to build for up to 6 months after treatment.

How long do results from PRP injections last?

Results from PRP injections can be seen for many years after treatment. However, these results vary due to the individual’s natural variation in quality of Platelet Rich Plasma, as well as their lifestyle.

What areas can I treat with PRP injections?

For cosmetic purposes, PRP is most popularly used to treat the face, neck, and scalp.

Is there any downtime associated with PRP?

There is no downtime associated PRP injections.

However, after your treatment, your skin may be red. This is normal and to be expected. Redness usually lasts from 1 hour to 24 hours. You
may also have a little swelling in some areas. Recovery time varies from patient to patient.

How many PRP treatments will I need?

Results can be seen after one treatment, but the exact number of
treatments needed varies from patient to patient. Generally, 2‐3 treatments are advised, but more may be indicated for some individuals.

Are there any side effects or possible risks to PRP injections?

PRP used for aesthetic procedures are safe for most individuals.

The most common side effects associated with PRP injections are
mild to moderate swelling and redness.

Who is NOT a candidate for PRP injections?

Patients with certain health conditions and who are pregnant are
not a candidate for PRP injections. Consultation and assessment will be made to ensure that you are the right candidate for PRP injections.

The treatment of PRP involves a portion of blood, collected fromthe individual patient into a syringe. The collected blood is then rotated down in a special centrifuge to separate its components. The platelet rich plasma is then reinjected, and/or micro-needled back into the skin.

Typically, a PRP treatment takes about an hour to complete. Thisdepends on if the PRP is administered through injections only, and/or micro-needled into the skin. This timeframe includes an additional 30 minutes for the blood to be drawn and spun in the centrifuge, and topical numbing to be applied.

Some mild discomfort may be felt while the PRP is being reinjected. The sensation usually felt is a burning or tingling sensation. This sensation only lasts a few minutes after the PRP injected. We ensure our patients are comfortable throughout the entire PRP treatment and apply topical numbing cream and ice to reduce any discomfort.

There is no downtime associated PRP injections.However, after your treatment, your skin may be red. This is normal and to be expected. Redness usually lasts from 1 hour to 24 hours. Youmay also have a little swelling in some areas. Recovery time varies from patient to patient.

Results can be seen after one treatment, but the exact number oftreatments needed varies from patient to patient. Generally, 2‐3 treatments are advised, but more may be indicated for some individuals.

PRP used for aesthetic procedures are safe for most individuals. The most common side effects associated with PRP injections aremild to moderate swelling and redness.

Patients with certain health conditions and who are pregnant arenot a candidate for PRP injections. Consultation and assessment will be made to ensure that you are the right candidate for PRP injections.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/consultations-for-skinrejuvenation]
Consultation for face/skin rejuvenation
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Prescription-only Treatments

The most cost-effective treatments in the aesthetics industry is a Prescription-only treatment that improves the skin quality and health.

It is an acetylcholine release inhibitor and a neuromuscular blocking agent on the muscles.

Resulting to temporary muscle relaxation and atrophy (slimming). Hence, choosing the right provider is key in achieving great aesthetic results.

What do we use?

We use TGA-approved injectables at Lift Aesthetics Sydney. The same mechanism of action: blocking the release of acetylcholine and preventing the muscles from contracting to maintain the aesthetic effect. Using the right doses and injection techniques are key to achieving your aesthetic goals.

What is it used for?

It temporarily prevents specific muscle movements, treatment for axillary hyperhidrosis, platysmal bands, and medically indicated for migraines and upper limb muscle spasticity.

How does it work?

It works by blocking the release of membrane-bound acetylcholine transmitter at the neuromuscular endplate resulting in temporary paralysis of the affected muscle.

What are the side effects?

The most common side effects are generalised weakness, eyelid drooping, fatigue (tiredness and/or asthenia), ‘flu-like’ symptoms, pain, bruising, swelling, and reddening at injection site.

Less commonly, it may cause itching.

Rarely, skin rashes, including rashes at the injection site, and muscle weakness maybe experienced.

What are the contraindications?

Pregnancy

Lactation

Neuromuscular diseases e.g., Myasthenia gravis, Eaton-lambert syndrome

Aminoglycoside antibiotics

Allergies, hypersensitivity to Botulinum Toxin, human albumin, etc.

Infection at injection site

Refer to Product information and published clinical papers for other areas that can be treated

How long does it take to administer?

Although clinic visits can vary, the procedure generally take 10 to 20 minutes.

How long does it take to work?

Although results vary, it starts working in 1-3 days and fully at 1-2 weeks

How long does it last?

Results can vary but it generally lasts around 3-6 months.

The most common side effects are generalised weakness, eyelid drooping, fatigue (tiredness and/or asthenia), ‘flu-like’ symptoms, pain, bruising, swelling, and reddening at injection site. Less commonly, it may cause itching. Rarely, skin rashes, including rashes at the injection site, and muscle weakness maybe experienced.

PregnancyLactationNeuromuscular diseases e.g., Myasthenia gravis, Eaton-lambert syndromeAminoglycoside antibioticsAllergies, hypersensitivity to Botulinum Toxin, human albumin, etc.Infection at injection siteRefer to Product information and published clinical papers for other areas that can be treated

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/biostimulators]
Biostimulator
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Biostimulators and Bio-Regenerators

There are several TGA-approved biostimulators in the market.

These injectables help gradually replace lost collagen and elastin to support cells and tissue. Stimulated cells (fibroblasts) form a scaffolding underneath which helps restore the deep structure and volume to maintain healthy skin appearance.

As the microparticles are absorbed, they help to stimulate collagen production and growth, which helps to gradually restore facial volume.

Which areas can biostimulators treat?

Biostimulators such as PLLA (Poly-L-Lactic acid) is clinically approved to treat facial lipoatrophy by volume restoration.
Volume restoration:
Collagen stimulation thickens the skin, resulting to filling in the sunken areas, and restoring volume naturally.

First approved in 2004 by the FDA for lipoatrophy, after HIV patients develop facial wasting from antiretroviral therapy.  It is also used for lipoatrophy in non-HIV patients. The treatment involves a series of injections and requires diligent post-treatment massage to ensure proper result.

When will I see results and how long does it last?

Treatment plan gives its full effects with an average of three monthly (ideally) treatment sessions over a few months. The results happen gradually where you will see subtle skin changes towards an healthier (pinch test) over a couple of months following treatment. Individual results and treatment sessions may vary.

Longevity:
The effects last for months, results seen after 18 to 24 months or more is possible.  Results are not permanently and vary in every individual.

Are biostimulators safe and what are the possible side effects?

As mentioned, PLLA is FDA approved in the United States and TGA approved in Australia and has been used worldwide since 1999.

It is made of a synthetic material called poly-L-lactic acid that is absorbed naturally by the body, and it does not contain any human or animal components, thus no allergy testing is necessary prior to treatments.

Possible side effects reported include redness, bruising, pain at injection site, tenderness, itching, bleeding, swelling and lumps. Sometimes, small bumps under the skin can felt when pressing on the treated area. Larger lumps, with or without inflammation has also been reported. Side effects may vary and if you are experiencing side effects, it is important to talk to your health professional.

Biostimulators such as PLLA (Poly-L-Lactic acid) is clinically approved to treat facial lipoatrophy by volume restoration.  Volume restoration: Collagen stimulation thickens the skin, resulting to filling in the sunken areas, and restoring volume naturally.First approved in 2004 by the FDA for lipoatrophy, after HIV patients develop facial wasting from antiretroviral therapy.  It is also used for lipoatrophy in non-HIV patients. The treatment involves a series of injections and requires diligent post-treatment massage to ensure proper result.

Treatment plan gives its full effects with an average of three monthly (ideally) treatment sessions over a few months. The results happen gradually where you will see subtle skin changes towards an healthier (pinch test) over a couple of months following treatment. Individual results and treatment sessions may vary. Longevity: The effects last for months, results seen after 18 to 24 months or more is possible.  Results are not permanently and vary in every individual.

As mentioned, PLLA is FDA approved in the United States and TGA approved in Australia and has been used worldwide since 1999. It is made of a synthetic material called poly-L-lactic acid that is absorbed naturally by the body, and it does not contain any human or animal components, thus no allergy testing is necessary prior to treatments. Possible side effects reported include redness, bruising, pain at injection site, tenderness, itching, bleeding, swelling and lumps. Sometimes, small bumps under the skin can felt when pressing on the treated area. Larger lumps, with or without inflammation has also been reported. Side effects may vary and if you are experiencing side effects, it is important to talk to your health professional.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/injectables]
Rejuran or SalmonSperm DNA/| Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Salmon (Sperm) DNA Rejuran

Rejuran is purified polynucleotide.

Rejuran® is purified polynucleotide (PN)

Rejuran is a Bio-regenerator, a healer, and an anti-inflammatory treatment to repair damaged skin.

The polynucleotide (PN)  is made of wild Salmon DNA fragments. It helps treated areas healthy by making the bio-identical PN improve the physiology of the skin inside out.  Treatments areas: around the eyes, forehead, temples, and cheeks.

Zoom

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/microneedling]
Microneedling & Collagen Induction
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Dermapen Microneedling

Leading Microneedling pen that visibly reduce the appearance of wrinkles , pigmentation, and problematic skin issues such as large pores, acne and comedones.  Australian-made Dermapen sets the bar high to offer superior results, safe techniques and effective skin solutions. Non-negotiable use of Medical Grade premium skincare during the procedure

Progressively innovative technology

Great speed, effectiveness, comfort-level and safety

Better absorption

The micro-channels created by the Dermapen Microneedling can carry up to 80% more topical nutrients deeper in the skin

Impressive results

Successfully reduce signs of ageing, pigmentation, acne, stretch marks, and so much more , for healthy glowing skin.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/surgitron-mole-removal-skin-tags-removal]
Mole & Skin Tag Removal (Surigtron)
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Mole & Skin Tags Removal

At Lift Aesthetics Sydney, we use Radiofrequency to remove elevated benign skin lesions.  We want you to get a clear skin check before we go ahead with the procedure.

Call us +61 9369 3326

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/general-treatment]
General Skin Treatments & Consultations
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

General Treatment & Consultation

Lift Aesthetics Sydney is a Doctor-led Cosmetic Clinic with a Holistic Approach to beauty and wellness.
The extensive first consultation with our experienced Cosmetic Doctor is vital to a successful Aesthetic Journey with us. Achieving your beauty goals safely is our priority. We make each treatment complement and build on each other.
Overall, we curate a treatment plan specific to your needs and future goals. Our expertise in anti-ageing, skin tightening/collagen stimulation and Intimate Wellness (both Ladies and Gentlemen) using Radiofrequency and Regenerative Medicine procedures are available in our Bondi Junction Clinic.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all]
Products
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Filter

Brand Expand menu Hide menu

Zo Skin Health

Type Expand menu Hide menu

Cleanser

Exfoliant

Serum

Sets

Skin Concerns Expand menu Hide menu

Acne

Hyperpigmentation

Rosacea

Sensitive Skin

Price Expand menu Hide menu

From

Sold Out

Add to cart

10%Vitamin C Self activating

$190.00

Complexion Clarifying Serum

Complexion Renewal Pads

$110.00

Daily Skincare Program

$320.00

Dual Action Scrub

$160.00

Exfoliating Cleanser - Normal to Oily

$100.00

Growth Factor Serum

$290.00

Oil Control Pads

$140.00

Rozatrol - Normalising Serum

$200.00

Alphabetically, A-Z
Sort

Featured

Most relevant

Best selling

Alphabetically, Z-A

Price, low to high

Price, high to low

Date, old to new

Date, new to old

Brand

Type

Skin Concerns

Price

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/contact]
50 Spring St,
Bondi Junction
NSW 2022, Australia
Direction

Phone: +61 2 9369 3326

Opening Hours

Mon - Friday: 10AM - 5PM
Saturday: 10AM - 3PM
Sunday: Closed

Email Us

Full Name

Phone Number

How can we help you today?

This site is protected by hCaptcha and the hCaptcha

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/book-an-appointment]
Book an Appointment Online
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Book an Appointment!

Saturday appointments are available upon request. Kindly call the clinic at  +61 2 9369 3326 to book for Saturdays.

Start Your Beauty Journey Here!

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/pages/reviews]
Reviews
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

Lift aesthetics sydney

50 Spring St
Bondi Junction
NSW 2022, Australia

Mon - Fri:
10am - 5pm
Sat:
10am - 3pm
Sun:
Closed

Directions

Select an option
Option one Option two Option three Option four Option five Option six
Are you an existing client?
Yes

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all/products/10-vitamin-c-self-activating]
10%Vitamin C Self activating
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

$190.00
Sale •
Save

Description

shipping & Pick up

See all

Provides potent dose of Vitamin C that brightens and redefines skin, promoting a more even skin tone and minimizing the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles.

INDICATION

Corrective and preventative Vitamin C blend for brightening + anti-aging benefits

BENEFITS

Pure Vitamin C works by rapidly exfoliating skin’s surface pigmentation for a more even tone and brighter complexion

Advanced Vitamin C ester goes one step further below the skin surface to prevent new melanin pigment formation
Powerful antioxidants help defend against environmental triggers that can initiate new pigment formation
Naturally occurring lipids hydrate and support skin barrier restoration

Minimizes the appearance of lines and wrinkles

KEY INGREDIENTS

Ascorbic acid (10%): Exfoliates skin surface pigmentation for a more even tone and brighter complexion

Tetrahexyldecyl ascorbate (vitamin C-ester 0.1%): Proven to prevent new pigment formation by up to 80% by inhibiting new melanin formation. Helps to stimulate healthy collagen production and reduce wrinkle depth

Tocopheryl acetate (vitamin E-ester) and ubiquinone (coenzyme-Q10): Provide multiple antioxidant protection

Squalane: Mimics our body’s own natural moisturizing factor for additional hydration

DIRECTIONS FOR USE

Apply to clean, dry skin.

SIZE

50 mL / 1.7 Fl. Oz.

To be added

Sold Out • $190.00

More payment options

You might also like

Related products

Recently viewed

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all/products/complexion-clarifying-serum]
Complexion Clarifying Serum
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

A water-based serum engineered with ZO sebum-targeting science that will assist in reducing surface oil, congestion + visible redness for a continually clear + balanced complexion.

This foundational staple is formulated for a range of skin types, especially combination, oily + blemish-prone skin.  Fragrance and alcohol free.

Assists in reduction of shine and helps to decongest skin

Reduces visible redness for a more uniform complexion

Minimises excess sebum with daily use, while providing optimal hydration for a range of skin types

Light, water-gel formula layers easily

Features a unique dropper that fills automatically for ease of application

ZO Sebum Targeting Complex (Eugenia uniflora leaf extract, Syringa vulgaris extract, Rosa Canina extract)

Water-Soluble Salicylic Acid

ZO-RRS2

ZPOLY

Add to Cart • $190.00

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all/products/complexion-renewal-pads]
Complexion Renewal Pads
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

$110.00
Sale •
Save

Reduces sebum production, removes dead skin cells and deep-cleans congested pores using 2% salicylic acid. Botanical extracts calm inflammation and soothe irritation. Recommended for prevention and treatment of oily skin and breakouts.

Normal to oily skin

• Dual-chemical exfoliation removes dead skin cells to prevent clogged pores and help decrease breakouts

• Reduces oiliness to help control acne and provide a clearer complexion

• Calms and soothes inflamed and irritated skin

• Provides antioxidants to protect against damage caused by free radicals

• Salicylic acid: Acne prevention

• Glycolic acid: Proven epidermal exfoliant

• Botanical extract blend: Provides anti-irritant properties  to soothe skin and reduce redness; also provide antioxidant benefits

• Urea: Helps to restore hydration

• Texture of pads: Specifically designed to help promote exfoliation

Gently wipe over face.

Add to Cart • $110.00

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all/products/daily-skincare-program]
Daily Skincare Program
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

$320.00
Sale •
Save

The first line of defense against fine lines and wrinkles is to keep skin hydrated and protected from damaging sun exposure. It starts with a basic skincare program that uses high levels of high-performance ingredients to aid in the fight against the natural aging process. The Daily Skincare Program is an everyday skincare essential to help strengthen and maintain healthy-looking skin. It is specifically targeted to:

•Help preserve and maintain a youthful-looking complexion

•Help prevent future damage by protecting skin from the sun

•Improve and maintain the appearance of even skin tone and finer pores

•Keep skin hydrated

CONTENTS

• Exfoliating Cleanser 60 mL / 2 Fl. Oz.

• Exfoliating Polish Net 16.2 g / 0.57 Oz.

• Complexion Renewal Pads 30 Pads

• Daily Power Defense 30 mL / 1 Fl. Oz.

Add to Cart • $320.00

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all/products/dual-action-scrub]
Dual Action Scrub
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

$160.00
Sale •
Save

This dual-exfoliating formula assists in clearing dead cells, whiteheads and blackheads.  Its exclusive 12-hour, multi-oxidant, time-release complex helps provide continuous antioxidant benefits while hydrators ensure skin softness and comfort.

Oily, acne-prone skin

• Dual-
action exfoliation

• Targets oil and bacteria

• Calming and soothing

• Restores lipids to enhance barrier restoration

• Exclusive potent antioxidant complex protects skin to help
minimise
inflammation and damage induced by daily oxidative stress

• ZOX12TM provides continuous antioxidant protection against free radical damage

• Lactic and salicylic acid: Chemically exfoliate dead skin cells

• Synthetic wax and candelilla wax: A non-irritating duo to physically exfoliate and slough away skin cells

• Melaleuca
alternifolia
(tea tree) leaf oil: Dissolves and r
emoves excess oils on
skin
while destroying P.acnes bacteria that can lead to acne

• GlycerinandsodiumPCA: Restore hydration and reinforce
barrier function

• ZOX12TM: Exclusive 12-hour time release antioxidant complex (encapsulated vitamins A, C, and E) helps protect the skin from free radical damage and assists in preventing future signs of premature
ageing

• ZO-RRS2™: ZO®Exclusive complex of Leontopodium alpinum (Edelweiss) and Marrubium Vulgare (horehound) meristem cell cultures which provide powerful antioxidant protection and
minimises
inflammation to prevent future skin damage.

Gently massage a small amount on damp face and neck. Rinse thoroughly.

116g/4 Oz

Add to Cart • $160.00

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all/products/exfoliating-cleanser-normal-to-oily]
Exfoliating Cleanser - Normal to Oily
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

$100.00
Sale •
Save

Gentle exfoliating cleanser for normal to oily skin that targets surface oil leaving the skin feeling clean, but not stripped and dry.

• Normal to oily skin

• Contains multiple foaming surfactant store move oil and impurities from the skin
• Targets excess sebum
• Jojoba esters help to remove dead skin cells to help unclog pores and stimulate healthy cell renewal
• Beta hydroxy acid (BHA) provides chemical exfoliation of dead skin cells
• Provides antioxidant protection to neutralize free radicals
• Helps to calm and soothe inflamed and irritated skin

• Jojoba esters: Exfoliate dead skin cells
• Salicylic acid: Promotes chemical exfoliation to keep pores clear
• Encapsulated vitamins E: Provides antioxidant benefits
• Niacinamide: Anti-inflammatory, cell renewal
• Niacin: Cell renewal and regeneration

Massage a small amount on damp face and neck. Rinse thoroughly

200ml/6.7Fl.Oz

Sold Out • $100.00

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all/products/growth-factor-serum]
Growth Factor Serum
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

$290.00
Sale •
Save

Lightweight gel for all skin types that assists in strengthening skin, supporting skin rejuvenation, protecting against future signs of ageing.

INCATION

All skin types with moderate signs of ageing

BENEFITS REPLACE WITH

• Highly tolerable and effective anti-ageing treatment

• Combines plant and enzymatically derived growth factors to stimulate skin’s extracellular matrix to promote production of collagen and hyaluronic acid

• Improves skin density, firmness and elasticity

• Reduces the appearance of lines + wrinkles

• Relaxes muscles for rapid smoothing of deep wrinkles

• Protects against future skin damage and the signs of premature ageing

Growth Factors: Disodium acetyl glucosamine phosphate and lactobacillus/panax ginseng root extract ferment filtrate

Stimulates extracellular matrix to promote production of new collagen and hyaluronic acid

ZPRO®: Hydrolyzed sericin and buddleja davidii (butterfly bush) meristem stem cell culture: Exclusive antioxidant and biomimetic protein

complex enhances production of collagen and hyaluronic acid and helps prevent future signs of ageing by protecting against cellular damage and collagen degradation

Dipeptide diaminobutyroyl benzylamide diacetate: Relaxes muscles for rapid smoothing of deep wrinkles

Angelica polymorpha sinensis (dong quai) root extract: Stimulates collagen, enhances microcirculation and reduces inflammation

Apply to clean, dry skin

30ml/1 Fl Oz

Add to Cart • $290.00

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all/products/oil-control-pads]
Oil Control Pads
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

$140.00
Sale •
Save

This acne-control product assists with prevention of outbreaks featuring proven exfoliants that assists with clearing pore-clogging oil.  It also contains botanical extracts with antioxidant and soothing properties to reduce redness and irritation.  Urea keeps skin moisture in balance

• Acne solution (2%salicylic acid) provides powerful treatment at the source
• A combination of proven exfoliant said in keeping pores clean and optimise the delivery of ingredients
• Specialised extracts target oiliness and shininess, and minimise pore size
• Scrubbing effect of the pad effectively removes dead skin cells
• Anti-inflammatory properties soothe skin and reduce redness
• Urea balances hydration and promotes a healthy skin barrier
• Cooling agent soothes skin irritation
• Multi-antioxidant complex prevents future skin damage and signs of ageing

• Salicylic acid (2%): Acne treatment
• Glycolic acid and mandelic acid: Proven epidermal exfoliants
• Rosacanina(dogrose)fruit extract:Sebum control;pore minimizer
• Hamamelis virginiana (witch hazel) extract: Astringent; pore minimizer
• Botanical extract blend: Provides anti-inflammatory properties to soothe skin and reduce redness; also provides antioxidant benefits
• Urea: Hydration restoration, replenishment and retention
• Menthyl lactate: Provides a cooling sensation and soothes skin irritation
• Texture of pads: Specifically designed to help promote exfoliation

Clean the skin thoroughly before applying this product. Cover the entire affected area with a thin layer one to three times daily.

Add to Cart • $140.00

---

[SOURCE: https://www.liftclinic.com.au/collections/all/products/rozatrol-normalising-serum]
Rozatrol - Normalising Serum
– Lift Aesthetics Sydney

$200.00
Sale •
Save

Treatment serum for red, sensitised skin that works to normalise skin by reducing excess surface oil. Exfoliating properties provide ultra-mild exfoliation to help prevent signs of premature ageing.

Rosacea, red, sensitised skin

• Inflammatory modulation complex helps reverse the appearance of existing skin redness, while preventing future UV-induced inflammation and redness

• Advanced amino acid complex helps promote optimal microcirculation to encourage healthy vascular functions and to restore skin to a more radiant appearance

• T
riple-blended oil-control complex prevents excess sebum production and provides anti-microbial benefits

• Helps restore cellular communication signals to normalise and stabilise natural skin functions

• Inflammatory modulation complex (lactose, milk protein, brassica oleracea italica extract): Help minimise inflammation and diminish the appearance of skin redness

• Palmitoyl glycine: Promotes healthy microcirculation

• Farnesyl acetate, farnesol, panthenyl triacetate: Prevent excess sebum production and provide anti-microbial benefits

• Papain: Gentle, enzymatic exfoliation to improve skin texture and tone

• Hydrolyzed algin: Restores healthy cellular communication

• ZO-RRS2™: ZO ® Exclusive complex of leontopodium alpinum (edelweiss) and marrubium vulgare (horehound) meristem cell cultures which provide powerful antioxidant protection and minimises inflammation to prevent future skin damage

50ml/1.7 Fl Oz

Add to Cart • $200.00