[SOURCE: https://cpphysio.com.au/]
Physio, Vestibular Rehabilitation & Concussion Rehabilitation in Inner West Sydney

How Can We Help

Who Will Help You

Why Choose Us

Where To Find Us

LEAVE YOUR PAIN WITH US

Every journey begins with a single step...so does your recovery with physio

YOU CAN ALSO SPEAK TO US ONLINE VIA VIDEO LINK!

Sometimes you might not be sure how or if we can help you? Get some professional physio advice instead of Googling, hoping that you will recover, and potentially risk your niggle getting worse. Do this all in the comfort of our own home or workplace!

ClICK HERE TO FIND OUT MORE

How Can We Help?

AREAS OF INTEREST

Vestibular Rehabilitation - (vertigo, dizziness, imbalance)

Concussion Rehabilitation

Acute and chronic neck and back pain

Migraines, headaches, jaw pain

Shoulder & elbow pain

Knee pain

Foot & ankle injuries

Sporting injuries

Post-op rehabilitation

Work-related injuries

Chronic pain conditions

Why Choose Us?

WHAT TO EXPECT

1 on 1

Hands-on physio treatment

Functional rehabilitation

Holistic approach

Lasting solution

Who Will Help You?

CHIEU PHAN

Clinic Founder & Director

Dual APA Titled Musculoskeletal & Sports Physiotherapist

Vestibular Physiotherapist

Concussion Rehabilitation - CCMI Certified Practitioner

University of Sydney Student Mentor

MORE ABOUT CHIEU

Concussion Rehabilitation - CCMI Certified Practitione

Lecturer & Tutor at the University of Sydney

DUSTIN LALONDE

Masters of Physiotherapy

Enjoys treating joint and muscle injuries, thinking of how it relates to function.

Post-op rehab and return to sport and/or work

MORE ABOUT DUSTIN

You can you use your private health insurance with us!

We accept  ALL  major private health insurance providers e.g. Medibank, AHM, NIB, BUPA, HCF, etc

You can use either your physical or  digital  card to  claim on the spot!

INITIAL CONSULTATION (50 min)

If this is your first time seeing us, we believe that it is important to spend the time to:

Identify your problem

Understand your goals

Start your treatment

Plan your recovery

FOLLOW-UP CONSULTATION (30 min)

We know you now, so we will:

Check on how you have been

Progress your treatment

Move you closer to your goal

EXTENDED CONSULTATION (40 min)

You might have more than one problem. You deserve more time.

More about our treatment options

Where are we?

Located in the Sydney's Inner West near Sydney Park

CPPHYSIO (St Peters Clinic)

Shop 2, 44 Princes Highway, St Peters New South Wales 2044, Australia

yourhelp@cpphysio.com.au

Opening Hours

Mon

08:00 am – 06:00 pm

Tue

07:30 am – 06:30 pm

Wed

08:30 am – 06:30 pm

Thu

Fri

07:30 am – 05:30 pm

Sat

08:00 am – 01:00 pm

Sun

Closed

To navigate the map with touch gestures double-tap and hold your finger on the map, then drag the map.

Move left

Move right

Move up

Move down

Zoom in

Zoom out

Jump left by 75%

End

Jump right by 75%

Page Up

Jump up by 75%

Page Down

Jump down by 75%

Keyboard shortcuts

Map Data
Map data ©2026 Google

500 m
Click to toggle between metric and imperial units

Terms

Report a map error

Get directions

CLICK HERE FOR TRANSPORT INFORMATION

Do you have a question?

Best Contact Number*

There is no such thing as a silly question!

See what's happpening @cpphysio

Check us out on Instagram

Powered by

---

[SOURCE: https://cpphysio.com.au/how-can-we-help]
How Can We Help You?

More than just pain

You may have come in to see us for a sore muscle or joint pain. To us, you are more than just a body part,  we see you as a whole. Your problem affects various aspects of your daily life both physically and emotionally. We want to help you get back to doing the things you love.

Understanding is the key

Receiving the best evidence-based treatment without understanding why is pointless. We will show you how and why the treatment works. If you are not sure, ask us and we will find a way to help you understand. Knowledge is power. Power is prevention.

Keeping it simple

Life is complicated enough. Occasionally we have big accidents that lead to injuries. Most of time, they are the result of little things happening over time. Our rehabilitation process focuses on function and the compound effect of small changes to your habits over time. If it is simple, you will do it.

Can we help you?

CLICK HERE TO BOOK NOW

---

[SOURCE: https://cpphysio.com.au/who-will-help-you]
YOUR PHYSIO - CHIEU (he/him)

QUALIFICATIONS:

Combined Masters of Musculoskeletal & Sports Physiotherapy

Bachelor of Applied Science (Physiotherapy)

Advanced Vestibular Rehabilitation

Concussion Rehabilitation - Certified CCMI Practitioner

Clinical Musculoskeletal Lecturer & Tutor - University of Sydney

Digital Health Advisory Group - CESPHN

I am a Dual APA Titled Musculoskeletal and Sports Physiotherapist. The title serves as a mark of formally recognised distinction for advanced clinical knowledge and skills in the areas of musculoskeletal and sports physiotherapy awarded through the Australian Physiotherapy Association.

I have advanced vestibular rehabilitation training managing vestibular disorders with 15 years of experience. I helped establish the Vestibular Physiotherapist Network Group which has grown to include therapists nationwide.

Previously I worked as an occupational health physiotherapist for Virgin Australia.

I am actively involved within the community, providing sports coverage for NSW Wheelchair Rugby League, the Pan Pacific Masters Games, Sydney’s City2Surf, and local netball competitions.

I am currently a Student Mentor, Lecturer, and  Clinical Tutor

through the University of Sydney for graduating physiotherapy students.

Over the years of working in various areas of physiotherapy and clinical settings, I found my passion in being a first contact health professional, helping everyone from the everyday person, the weekend warrior, to the elite athlete. I have developed an extensive understanding of how the body works as an integrated system of joints, muscles, soft tissue and nerves. I have the ability to translate this knowledge to your specific problem and explain the recovery process in a language you will understand.

From my experience, the most effective health care is a two-way relationship with my patients and empowering you back to full health and beyond. I am more than happy to listen and help you with any niggle big or small.

YOUR PHYSIO - DUSTIN (HE/HIM)

I am a Canadian Physiotherapist trained here in Australia at the University of Sydney. I am a compassionate individual with a strong commitment to helping others. Prior to pursuing a Master of Physiotherapy, I worked as an exercise therapist in Canada, where I gained experience working with all types of patients, from the average Joe to professional athletes and everyone in between. I believe in the value of working collaboratively with patients to empower them to achieve their health and fitness goals.

I am a regular gym-goer and former multi-sport athlete with particular interest in American football, rugby, ice hockey, and golf. I remain connected to sport through the University of Sydney American Football Club as a captain and player/coach. In my free time I try to get out fishing or a surf as often as I can. I enjoy entertaining and spending time with loved ones.

I have lived and worked locally in Sydney’s inner west for the last 2 years and have loved the sense of community this area has to offer. I am excited for the opportunity to continue to serve our community by providing health and wellness solutions to get you back to your best self.

YOUR HELP TEAM - ADAM (HE/HIM)

I’m Adam and I am currently a physiotherapy student studying the Doctor of Physiotherapy at the University of Sydney. I’m in my final year of studies and look forward to graduating and continuing my journey as a qualified physiotherapist as of 2027!

I was always playing one sport or another growing up, whether it was soccer, AFL, tennis or swimming. I settled on baseball and was able to travel to Japan and South Korea for two tournaments whilst I was in high school. At the moment, I go to the gym regularly and try to get out for a game of golf with family or friends when I can. I still have a passion for baseball and follow the MLB, go Phillies!

You’ll often find me going for a hike with my partner or eating out at restaurants and cafes all around Sydney. I also love a good escape room or a board game night with friends. I’ve recently started to travel and have now visited South East Asia (Vietnam, Thailand and Bali), Japan and South Korea. I hope to make that list longer and experience as many unique cultures and places as I can!

I really look forward to meeting everyone that walks in the door!

Is there someone that can help you?

CHIEU FEATURED IN THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL REVIEW

READ THE FULL ARTICLE HERE

Chieu's interview on VOX POP

---

[SOURCE: https://cpphysio.com.au/why-choose-us]
Hands-on treatment

All our consultations are 1:1. Your time is important to us.

What is the problem? Joint? Muscle? Soft tissue? Nerve tissue? We need to feel how your body moves.

Our focus is what you can do. We will modify or provide alternate tasks to help you build back up to what you want to do.

Healthcare is a team effort. We will work with everyone who is involved.

Lasting Solutions

We will find the source of your problem, help you understand and change your habits, and empower you back to full health and beyond.

Would you like to choose us to help you?

---

[SOURCE: https://cpphysio.com.au/our-services]
Musculoskeletal & Sports Physiotherapy

Expert assessment and treatment of any  injury involving muscles, joints, ligaments or nerves ; that you may have sustained at home, work, recreational activity, or sport.

Vestibular Rehabilitation

Providing specialised assessment and  treatment of vertigo (sensation of spinning), dizziness and imbalance.

This may include  BPPV repositioning  techniques, other  objective vestibular tests , and collaboration with GPs, ENT specialists, and neurologists

There is more to managing a concussion than just rest , especially if rest has not helped settle the symptoms.

We will  create a specific rehabilitation program to help you get back to school, work, sport, and life.

Providing an effective treatment program that involves  understanding the inter-relationship between your head, neck, and jaw ; in addition to other factors that may contribute to your presentation.

If you were injured at work  and have lodged a Workcover claim. Just bring your claim number to your appointment. We will discuss your progress with your case manager, RTW coordinator, and doctor.

Exercise Prescription

An essential part of your rehabilitation to helping you get back to what you love.  Exercise may involve a formal program for the gym or and home.  It could also be simple little changes to your daily routine.

Dry Needling

Dry needling  may be used as part of a physiotherapy treatment, where it can help with alleviating pain and improving function from a musculoskeletal injury.

Online Video Consultations

We can also provide most of the above services online via video conferencing.

Video conferencing is handy when you need to quickly talk to us about a new injury and find out to best tackle it (saves you from bad advice or Googling) OR when you are further down the track in your recovery and we are tweaking your rehabilitation program.

We have 4 programs available for you to choose from:

PAY-AS-YOU-GO:

1x video consultation (either 30 min or 40 min)

Personalised rehabilitation program

Unlimited access to physio support via App messaging service for 1 week

4-WEEK PROGRAM

1x video consultation (30 min)

Personalised and adaptive rehabilitation program

Unlimited access to physio support via App messaging service for 4 weeks

Review at 4 weeks (10 min x video consultation)

8-WEEK PROGRAM

2x video consultation (30 min)

Unlimited access to physio support via App messaging service for 8 weeks

Review at 8 weeks (10 min x video consultation)

12-WEEK PROGRAM

3x video consultation (30 min)

Unlimited access to physio support via App messaging service for 12 weeks

Review at 12  weeks (10 min x video consultation)

Would you like us to help you?

CLICK HERE TO BOOK

---

[SOURCE: https://cpphysio.com.au/where-to-find-us]
St Peters Clinic

Shop 2, 44-46 Princes HIghway

ST PETERS NSW 2044

P: 02 7204 2914

F: 02 9475 1121

E: yourhelp @cpphysio.com.au

Parking:
- Available on the Princes Highway in front of the clinic (except Mon-Fri 3pm-7pm)

- Barwon Park Rd (unrestricted)

-  Sydney Park Carpark (4 hours).

Train:
- 5 minutes walk from St Peters Train Station

Bus:

-  Buses 422 and 348 stop directly in front of the clinic

Find us on google maps

Would you like to see us at the clinic?