[SOURCE: https://www.p1physio.com.au/]
P1 Pilates

Physiotherapy

P1 Physiotherapists are able to thoroughly assess your injuries and create a treatment plan to optimise rehabilitation and ensure you recover to your full potential. We are able to treat a range of musculoskeletal and sporting injuries, in the acute and chronic phases of recovery. A focus on improving maintaining muscle length, strength and tension, early reduction of inflammation and pain and restoring pain free movement, are the key elements of Physiotherapy at P1. This is achieved through a range of techniques including soft tissue therapy, joint mobilisations, dry needling, corrective taping, postural strengthening and stretching.

Women's Health Physiotherapy

We treat an array of womens health concerns and pelvic related issues; such as pregnancy, post-natal check-ups, pre-exercise screening, Pelvic Organ Prolapse (POP), Incontinence, pelvic pain, pelvic floor muscle weakness and more. Often, in the realm of womens health, there are sensitive issues that are difficult to discuss and to ensure that you feel comfortable and completely at ease during your appointment, we have a caring female physiotherapist to carry out a comprehensive and professional assessment in a dedicated private room. You can be assured that your privacy will be held with the highest regard and will always be respected and maintained. We will openly discuss your management options and devise a treatment plan that you understand and are comfortable with.

Dry Needling

Dry needling is a form of Western Acupuncture where a very fine needle is painlessly inserted into the specifically selected muscle or area to treat muscular pain and spasm, tendinopathies and myofascial dysfunction. The aim of Dry needling is to help relax the identified trigger point in the muscle and reduce tension or spasm, this can elicit a twitch-relax response from the muscle. Dry needling can also aid in activation of weak muscle or reduce inflammation in an area. The needles are the exact same used in traditional Eastern Acupuncture and made of very fine sterilised, stainless steel with nothing in them or on them. They are individually sealed and disposed of after use.

Casting & Splinting

P1 Physiotherapists are able to custom make waterproof and light-weight fiberglass casting for fracture management ,as well as remove them when the time comes. Custom thermo-plastic splints are also available and made-to-fit perfectly to the limb and have the benefit of being removable for cleaning or temporary stabilisation. We are able to supply and fit walking boots for the lower limbs and have a range of specialised braces to manage any injury for all areas of the body, to unload painful joints, assist with compression and support the area affected. Sports taping is also available during your Physiotherapy consultation or as a taping-only quick consult when in need to get to Sports training or games to enable safe participation.

Exercise Physiology

Our Exercise Physiologist can tailor individualised and specific exercise programs to enhance your recovery whether it be following a workplace or sporting injury, rehabilitation pre or post-surgery as well as for the management of chronic conditions. We have a range of exercise equipment and a functional gym space, where you can carry out your program safely and effectively.

Remedial Massage

Deep tissue massage to 'remedy' an area of muscle spasm and tightness and release sensitive pressure points is essential for pain and tension relief and to restore muscle length. Massage also assists with improving circulation and the removal of toxins that build up from tight muscle spasm.

Shockwave Therapy

An excellent modality in the treatment of tendiopathies, fasciopathies and soft tissue conditions as well as osteoarthritic conditions. It has been highly effective in treating the following conditions:
- Tendinopathies including tennis/golfers elbow, patella tendinopathy, Achillies tendinopathy, gluteal tendinopathy
- Plantar fasciitis and heel spurs
- Adhesive capsulitis
- Osteoarthritis
Shockwaves are sound waves (not an electrical current or pulse) which pass through the tissues to the desired treatment area to promote healing by amplifying protein and collagen synthesis, stimulate tissue remodelling and reducing pain to allow improved function.
Our Shockwave Therapy unit can provide one of the lowest pulse pressures ensuring maximum comfort and treatment efficacy for our patients while being able to provide as strong a pulse as any other unit on the market.

Post-natal Check-ups

Are offered to women any time after giving birth, and this can be in the form of a 'Telehealth' appointment from the comfort of your hospital room, or a 'face to face' Consultation in the P1 Clinic.

Regardless of whether you have any major concerns, It is still highly recommended to book an appointment at 6 weeks post-natal period, for a comprehensive assessment and check up following your birth and especially if you are considering returning to exercise at the time.

For all Womens' Health appointments relating to Ante-Natal Classes and Post-Natal check ups, please contact the practice to arrange appointment suitable for you.

MICHAEL PASQUALIN

Director, Principal Physiotherapist
Over the past 10 years, Michael has treated patients of all ages with a broad range of conditions and injuries, effectively helping them to return to full function.
Read More…

TONY BUI

Massage Therapist
I specialise in sports massage and use multiple techniques including dry needling, cupping, myofascial release, and trigger point therapy to help my patients achieve their stress and pain management goals.

ALYSON SOMMERVILLE

Physiotherapist
I enjoy using a combination of hands-on, manual techniques, dry needling and individualised exercise prescription to help patients improve their pain and function.

GIUSEPPE LETTIERI

For more than 5 years, I have helped many people of all ages recover from many different conditions such as post-operative care, workplace related injuries, young athletes and the elderly in aged care.

Ready to Book Your Appointment?

Our experienced Allied Health professionals are able to effectively treat and manage a whole range of conditions to help anyone of any age reach their full potential.

Our Practice

Item 1 of 9

Google Reviews

See why patients trust P1 Physio, read our 5-star Google reviews and discover what makes our physiotherapy clinic stand out.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.p1physio.com.au/michaelpasqualin]
B App Sci (Exe and Sport Sci)
Masters (Physiotherapist)

Principal Physiotherapist

Michael has been a qualified Physiotherapist since 2011, completing his Masters of Physiotherapy at the University of Sydney with an undergraduate degree in Exercise & Sport Science.

Over the past 10 years, Michael has treated patients of all ages with a broad range of conditions and injuries, effectively helping them to return to full function. Michael works closely with Orthopaedic and Neurological surgeons to help manage their patient's recovery after surgery. He also fits braces, boots and custom-made splints and waterproof fibreglass casts at our Oran Park location.

Michael is a dedicated hands-on Physiotherapist who tailors his treatment to each individual. He finds the best results for his patients by utilising a range of techniques with soft-tissue therapy, joint mobilisations, dry needling and exercise prescription as well as educating his patients on their condition, treatment plan and self-management strategies.

Michael's clinical interest include musculoskeletal, sports and work-related injuries, pre and post surgery rehabilitation, paediatric physiotherapy and injury prevention.

Over the last 10 years Michael has worked with a range of amazing people and groups such as:

· V8 Supercars Championship – Team 18 (Mark Winterbottom, Steve Richards, Scott Pye)

· Football Australia

· Football NSW – Marconi Stallions & Mounties Wanderers FC

Please email Michael should you have any health matters or concerns that you would like to discuss at
michael@p1physio.com.au

---

[SOURCE: https://www.p1physio.com.au/tony]
Massage Therapist

I completed my Diploma of Remedial Massage with the Australian Institute of Fitness in 2020. Since graduating, I have worked with numerous elite athletes from multiple sport codes including members of Cricket Australia, NZ Rugby 7's, and both the Australian Kangaroos and PNG Rugby League teams.

Outside the clinic room, I have a high interest in sport and have competed at various representative oztag tournaments. Having accumulated several injuries over the years, I have spent majority of my time on the treatment table and know the importance of injury management and prevention.

I specialise in sports massage and use multiple techniques including dry needling, cupping, myofascial release, and trigger point therapy to help my patients achieve their stress and pain management goals.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.p1physio.com.au/alyson]
Physiotherapist

Growing up with an active sporting life Alyson has always had an interest in sport and injury management which lead her to complete her Bachelor of Science majoring in Exercise Science in 2007 and follow on to complete her Masters of Physiotherapy in 2009.

Since her graduation Alyson has gained extensive experience in several fields between working in both Private Hospital and Practice. This has allowed Alyson to be able to see a wide range of patients in both settings such as post-surgery, pre and post natal and multiple demographics. She enjoys using a combination of hands-on, manual techniques, dry needling and individualised exercise prescription to help her patients improve their pain and function.

Alyson's main passion is in the area of Women's Health Physiotherapy. Alyson dedicates herself to providing essential treatment and management to women across all stages of life. She has specialised training in the treatment of a number of conditions including pelvic pain, incontinence, prolapse, and pelvic floor strengthening.

Alyson understands that these conditions can be highly emotional and can have a huge impact on each women's life. She provides a supportive environment ensuring each patient feels comfortable as well as addressing their individual condition.

As part of her role Alyson has taught both antenatal and post natal education classes helping new mums learn about their bodies journey from pregnancy through to their safe return to sport.

As a mother of two children, Alyson understands the challenges facing women trying to juggle a busy lifestyle whilst also caring for your own needs. Alyson enjoys spending time with her family taking her children to the park and camping.

Alyson Sommerville is fully registered with the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA) and is a member of the Australian Physiotherapy Association and Women's Health Training Association.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.p1physio.com.au/giuseppe]
Giuseppe is a passionate and dedicated Physiotherapist, with a Bachelors of Health Sciences (Major in Movement Sciences) with a Masters in Physiotherapy.

For more than 5 years, he has helped many people of all ages recover from many different conditions such as post-operative care, workplace related injuries, young athletes and the elderly in aged care.

Giuseppe has a particular interest in Sports physiotherapy with experience in Football and Running Injuries. After playing soccer at elite levels in his youth, he understands how important it is to move better, be stronger and to perform at your best.

Giuseppe loves to use Movement Assessment Technologies to measure mobility, strength and power, alongside video analysis to assess the quality of movement, such as Running technique or Squat form.

His treatment approach focuses on hands-on, such as soft tissue therapy, joint mobilizations, dry needling, along with shockwave therapy and cupping. He also prescribes exercises, tailored for each individual.

He spends his downtown watching his favorite soccer team Napoli, being a foodie and always trying a new restaurant, making pizzas, cooking a barbecue, and also exploring the outdoors.

Giuseppe is a member of the Australian Physiotherapy Association (APA), and a Sports Physiotherapy Level 1 & 2 Accredited.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.p1physio.com.au/ (footer — contact and hours; not recoverable by the automated
scraper because <footer>/.footer chrome is deliberately stripped site-wide as noise, out of scope
for the 2026-08-26 extraction-gap fix, manually captured instead)]
Opening Hours
Monday to Friday 8am - 6.30pm
Saturday 8am - 12pm
Appointments and walk-ins welcome, no referral needed.

Contact Us
Visit: LPC House, Suite 1.01/3 Fordham Way, Oran Park NSW 2570
Call: 1300 77 49 49
Email: oranpark@p1physio.com.au

NOTE: Sahil Sekhon, Sarah Post and Tanya Messina (3 of the clinic's 6 active Cliniko practitioners)
have NO bio, mention, or listing anywhere on this website as of 2026-08-26 — confirmed via full
accessibility-tree read of the homepage team carousel (only Michael Pasqualin, Tony Bui, Alyson
Sommerville, Giuseppe Lettieri appear). This is a genuine website content gap, not a scraper
failure — there is no page to scrape for their bios. Also note "Tony Bui" (Massage Therapist) is
listed on the website's team section but is NOT in the clinic's Cliniko practitioners table —
likely non-bookable via this system; excluded from kb.txt for that reason.
