[SOURCE: https://shireosteopath.com.au/]
Book

Shire Osteopath

HELPING YOU MOVE AND FEEL YOUR BEST

WELCOME TO SHIRE OSTEOPATH

Hi, I’m Kate, a qualified and experienced Sutherland Shire osteopath and I’m here to help you move and feel your best. My approach to osteopathy is to treat you, the whole person, by considering your body's structure, and function, and your lifestyle. I strive to empower you by relieving pain, restoring movement, and helping you regain confidence in your body. My goal is to guide you toward long-term wellness, not just short-term relief, through a combination of hands-on therapy, exercise, and education. I look forward to helping you on your journey to better health!

Shire Osteopath is located within the calm and friendly Wellshare clinic rooms in Caringbah, just upstairs from Shire Doctors and Dentists.

More about Kate

Experienced in the treatment of more than just back pain

Who can benefit?

Osteopaths are trained to manage and/or treat the symptoms of a wide range of musculoskeletal conditions, including:

Back Pain & Neck Pain

Joint Pain

Sports Injuries

Soft Tissue Issues

Headaches

Pregnancy-Related Pain

Rehabilitation

General Well-being

Chronic Pain Management

Is Osteopathy right for me?

If you have any questions about how osteopathy may help you please feel free to reach out to Kate.

Send an email

Please get in touch with any questions or to book

Sutherland Shire Osteopath - Kate Major

Level 1, 416 Kingsway, Caringbah New South Wales 2229, Australia

0489 232 005

Mon

By Appointment

Tue

Closed

Wed

Thu

Fri

Sat

Sun

Closed major holidays

To navigate the map with touch gestures double-tap and hold your finger on the map, then drag the map.

Move left

Move right

Move up

Move down

Zoom in

Zoom out

Jump left by 75%

End

Jump right by 75%

Page Up

Jump up by 75%

Page Down

Jump down by 75%

Keyboard shortcuts

Map Data
Map data ©2026 Google

500 m
Click to toggle between metric and imperial units

Terms

Report a map error

Get directions

I look forward to helping you on your health journey

Shire Osteopath - Kate Major

Powered by  GoDaddy

---

[SOURCE: https://shireosteopath.com.au/about]
Sutherland Shire Osteopath

Kate Major - Osteopath - MOst., BAppSci., BSc

Kate is an experienced Osteopath, passionate about helping individuals achieve better health and wellness through holistic, hands-on treatment. She graduated with a Master of Osteopathy in 2014 and began her career working in Auckland before relocating to Sydney. Currently based in Caringbah, she enjoys raising her two young children, and is proud to be part of the Sutherland Shire community.

Over the years, Kate has had the privilege of working in a variety of multidisciplinary clinics across Auckland and Sydney. These experiences have taught her the value of collaborative care and how different approaches can work together to improve patient outcomes.

Kate is AHPRA registered and a member of Osteopathy Australia. Kate has completed a range of professional development courses since graduation including GEMt dry needling, and pre- and post-natal care.

Kate enjoys treating teenagers through to adults; sporting injuries through to back pain and sprains and strains from everyday life. As a mum of two, she understands the physical challenges pregnancy can bring, and is passionate about helping other women navigate this transformative time in their lives.

When Kate is not treating patients, you’ll likely find her enjoying a coffee at a local café or chasing her kids around the playground. Kate believes in creating a supportive and understanding environment where her patients feel comfortable and confident in their care.

1/7

---

[SOURCE: https://shireosteopath.com.au/services]
Who

What

Kate enjoys treating teenagers through to our older generations. Individuals from different walks of life, different work environments and different physical capabilities. She has experience treating:

tradies,

hairdressers,

office workers,

police and defence force personnel,

retirees,

pregnant individuals,

HSC and uni students,

high level athletes including ironman,

and those just getting into exercise.

Over the years she has found herself treating whole families. She prides herself on her ability to build rapport with a wide range of individuals and takes genuine interest in her patients lives and wellbeing.

Kate is trained and qualified to help with a wide range of musculoskeletal conditions. Her education and experience have given her the tools and knowledge to identify what is causing your pain, whether you require further imaging (x-ray) or referral to another professional. Kate's honest and practical approach to healthcare aims to have you feeling confident you have a pathway to your end goal. Some examples of conditions Kate has experience helping with include:

neck and pain

sciatica

arthritis

fibromyalgia

frozen shoulder

bursitis

tendinopathies (sprains and tears)

pregnancy related pelvic pain

muscle strains and tears

postural dysfuctions

Why

Kate is committed to helping you feel and move your best. She wants you to feel confident in your body and its ability to sustain and maximise your quality of life.  Whether your goal is to improve your bench press, play some backyard footy with the kids, get through your workday pain-free, or perform day-to-day activities independently, Kate will work with you to ensure you stay strong and active for all the important moments in life.

---

[SOURCE: https://shireosteopath.com.au/book]
Your appointment:

Please allow 60 minutes for your first appointment and 40 minutes for any subsequent appointments.

Located on Level 1, above Shire Doctors and Dentists.

Free parking is available on site and on surrounding streets.

Upon booking you will receive a confirmation email with detailed information about location, parking and accessing the clinic. If it is your first visit you will also receive an online patient intake form to fill in.

Please bring your private health fund card, any relevant imaging results (eg x-ray, ultrasound), Medicare card (if you have a chronic disease management plan from your GP), any other information you think relevant.

Please wear or bring a comfortable change of clothes (eg sports shorts and t-shirt).

You do not need a referral to book an appointment.