[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/]
The path to wellness starts here

Carnoustie

Montrose

Welcome to Angus Osteopathic and Sports Injury Clinics

Osteopaths are Allied Healthcare Professionals and primary care providers working alongside Physiotherapists in musculoskeletal roles within NHS England. They specialise in the diagnosis, treatment and management of pain and dysfunction arising from the musculoskeletal system.

Carnoustie Clinic

Our clinic is conveniently located inside Impact Fitness, with ample free parking available outside.

Montrose Clinic

We have a clinic in Montrose on Murray Street, get in touch today to book an appointment.

Consultant Musculoskeletal Specialist

We offer an honest, evidence based, patient centred approach to empower patients to get better.

Our goal is simply to get you better! And Keep you better!

We combine an evidence based, patient centred approach with a Bachelor of Science degree in Anatomy, Physiology & Osteopathy and more than 17 years experience in private practice, to provide professional, evidence based, effective treatments within two locations in Angus,

We Specialise in the diagnosis and management of a range of musculoskeletal problems including – Hip and Knee Osteoarthritis, Shoulder problems including Rotator cuff tears and Frozen shoulder. Low back and neck issues.

We offer scientifically based personal training sessions to help improve mobility strength and performance and overall wellbeing.

We are experts in strength and conditioning and can help older adults reduce the affects of age related sarcopenia, osteopenia and osteoporosis. Improving mobility, reducing falls and generally improving overall quality of life.

If you are suffering from
any of the issues below
or have been diagnosed with any of the
following
then we can help.

Low Back Pain

Morning stiffness

Neck Pain

Joint Stiffness

Trapped Nerve

Mobility problems

Shoulder Pain

Struggle getting out a chair

Tendonitis

Pain on movement

Pain gardening

Arthritic pain

Facebook

No recent Facebook posts to show

Find us on Facebook

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/contact]
Book Appointment

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/about-the-osteopath]
About the Osteopath

Richard Fulton – Consultant Musculoskeletal Specialist and Exercise Physiologist

BSc (Hons) Physiology & Anatomy (University of Dundee), BSc (Hons) Osteopathy (University of Middlesex) Specialist in Strength and Conditioning and Functional Rehabilitation

With more than a decades worth of experience working in private practice Richard has developed a keen interest in Pain Science and Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation as well as acute understanding of pain, the causes of pain and the factors that influence pain.

Over the years in private practice, patterns begin to emerge, patient types begin to become apparent, and treatment approaches can best be modified to suite a particular person with a particular problem.

Experience shows that we are all individuals, no two people are the same, so there is no one size fits all approach. Therefore, having someone who is adaptable enough to harness the best form of treatment to guide a particular person with a particular problem is an art that takes time to develop.

We specialise in a deep understanding of Anatomy, Physiology and Pathology as well as how we can change someones physiology through exercise and education to achieve effective evidence based results.

An understanding of when to treat, when not to treat, what to say, what not to say, all play crucial roles in the path to getting someone better.

Over the years what has become apparent is that the KEY elements required to help someone is:

Empathy

Communication

Support

Understanding

Reassurance

Education

The more a person can be empowered to take control and understand there situation, results in better, longer lasting patient outcomes.

Registration at General Osteopathic Council

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/your-treatment]
What to expect

We appreciate that value is important to you and our fees reflect the level of training, experience and standard of care that you will receive.

Our goal is simply to get you better!

We will help you with your symptoms & advise you with anything you need help with.

What to expect at your Initial Consultation

Case history

We will need you to tell us all about your symptoms and your past medical history. We will then ask you some specific questions to help us. This helps us formulate some differential diagnosis.

Examination

We will then need to examine the area and related areas that are causing your symptoms. We will ask you to perform some simple movements. We will then carry out some specific orthopaedic and neurological tests to help challenge our diagnosis ruling in conditions and ruling out others depending on test results

Diagnosis

This is what separates qualified musculoskeletal professionals like physiotherapists and Osteopaths from massage therapists and personal trainers and any other practitioner that is not regulated by a governing body – They are not qualified or educated enough in anatomy, physiology or pathology to make an accurate diagnosis. We will tell you to the best of our ability what is causing your discomfort with any differential diagnosis if it isn’t quite clear at this stage.

Treatment and Rehabilitation Plan

“Treatment”, can take many forms – advice, reassurance, lifestyle changes etc, these may have the biggest effect of your presenting problem.  We will discuss treatment options and carry out the most appropriate treatment plan based the most up to date evidence base.

Advice and Reassurance

We will give you some specific advice and reassurance on what to expect. We will tell you what to do before your next session in order to show you how to help yourself, speed up your recovery and reduce your symptoms.

Follow up Consultation –

A follow up appointment is requited to see the results of the initial season and guide future management. On your next visit we will ask if symptoms have changed and improved. We will then do a re-exam of the area with some specific tests to check your progress. After this we will carry out the appropriate treatment needed.

As you progress through your treatment plan we will offer some individual advice on how to avoid these symptoms in the future. This will be related to your work, lifestyle and hobbies.

Treatment Plans

Patients who invest in themselves and engage with comprehensive treatment plans often experience improved outcomes as these plans encourage consistency and adherence to care.

Treatment Plans allow patients to buy a number of sessions at a discount because they are committed to investing in themselves to getting better.  The vast majority of musculoskeletal conditions can be helped given appropriate personalised rehabilitation and time. Some conditions like Frozen Shoulder, Rotator cuff strains, tendonopathy or arthritis, will require weeks if not months of care.

Initial Consultation and Two follow up Sessions

This is an excellent starting plan because it allows for a few sessions to formulate a treatment plan and see some results to assess how recovery will go.

Monthly Personal Training Rehabilitation

Improve you quality of life, strength and mobility with weekly Personal Exercise Physiology sessions. These are scientifically driven, objectively measured, exercise physiology sessions that can help improve a range of conditions including – High blood pressure – COPD – Pre Diabetes – General stiffness – weakness – balance issues – to name a few.

All research shows us that Exercise is the gold standard for the treatment and management of
Low back & Neck pain – Hip, Knee, Shoulder problems.

We educate you around the root causes of common pain presentations and dispel the ongoing torrent of false information perpetuated by an increase in social media and uneducated individuals perpetuating unhelpful beliefs.  This allows you to take control of your situation.

Please Note All blocks are valid for 3 months. Any refund is given at the full consultation price plus a £10 administration charge.

Private Healthcare

You don’t
need a GP referral to see and osteopath. A few of the major insurance companies now cover osteopathy. It is worth checking your policy and contacting your insurance company to see if you need a GP referral in order to make a claim.

Some of the insurers our previous patients have used include: Aviva & Simply Health.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/clinics]
Osteopathic Clinics In Angus

Contact us today to arrange an appointment

Name *

Email *

Phone *

Notifications

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/clinics/carnoustie-osteopathic-clinic]
Our Carnoustie Clinic has been open since 2010 and have established a reputation for quality and a good service.

Our clinic has moved and is now located inside Impact Fitness in Panbride. Free parking is available on site.

The clinic is approximately 10 minutes drive from Monifieth and Arbroath and just over 20 minutes from Montrose, Brechin and Forfar.

Carnoustie Clinic Location

View in Google Maps

To navigate the map with touch gestures double-tap and hold your finger on the map, then drag the map.

Move left

Move right

Move up

Move down

Zoom in

Zoom out

Jump left by 75%

End

Jump right by 75%

Page Up

Jump up by 75%

Page Down

Jump down by 75%

Sorry, we have no imagery here.

Keyboard shortcuts

Map Data
Map data ©2026

200 m
Click to toggle between metric and imperial units

Terms

Report a map error

Impact Fitness, Panbride, Carnoustie, DD7 6JR

BESbswy

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/clinics/montrose-osteopathic-clinic]
Our Montrose Clinic opened in September 2015 and we are excited to be able to offer the people of Montrose, Laurencekirk, St Cyrus, Brechin and Inverkeilor a first class Osteopathic service.

Our clinic is located at 71 Murray Street, the north end of the High Street. The railway station is an 5 minute walk away and a number of buses stop close to the clinic. You can park on the street free for 30 mins and Murray Lane car park is just across the road.

The clinic is approximately 15 minutes drive from Brechin and just over 30 minutes from Stonehaven.

Montrose Clinic Location

Map Data
Map data ©2026 Google

71 Murray Street

Montrose, Angus

DD10 8JZ

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/why-choose-us]
Why choose us

Reasons to choose Angus Osteopathic and Sports Injury Clinics.

Our approach combines an understanding of pain management with the anatomical and physiological principals of exercise therapy and rehabilitation to develop specific, patient centred, corrective exercises.

We offer an honest patient centred approach

We are easy to find, with ample free parking

We are a relaxed easy going clinic

We are professional

We are evidence based

We are cost effective

Customer satisfaction is our priority

We are 100% committed to getting you better

Contact us today and we'll get back to you to arrange an appointment at the clinic.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/neck-pain-specialist]
Neck Pain Specialist

Our Osteopaths Exercise physiologist and rehabilitation specialist in Carnoustie & The Neighbouring Area

Angus Clinics in Carnoustie provides tailored therapy for neck pain, relieving symptoms through carefully delivered techniques. We serve the local area proudly, working across Arbroath, Monifieth and Broughty Ferry.
We use our understanding of pain management with the anatomical and physiological principles of exercise therapy and rehabilitation to develop specific, patient-centred, corrective exercises that work specifically for you. To us, alleviating your discomfort involves an acute analysis of the underlying factors, guiding you personally toward recovery, restoration and optimal neck function.

Neck pain is a distinct and lucid source of discomfort, encompassing the vertebrae, muscles, and soft tissues. Resulting from various factors, including poor posture, muscle strain, injuries, or underlying conditions, and often leading to stiffness, limited mobility, and discomfort, it requires targeted treatment that’s focused on providing support carefully to the sensitive area. We work delicately, considering the intricate connections between the neck, spine, and surrounding musculature. Through precise and gentle manual techniques, such as cervical spine manipulation and soft tissue mobilisation, we aim to alleviate muscle tension, improve joint mobility, and enhance overall neck function. Additionally, we target strengthening supportive muscles and improving posture, addressing the underlying causes of the pain.

Our Specialism

Our specialism is our care, administered with consideration and concern for your welfare. As part of that technique, we practise deep tissue massage, hot stone massage, dry cupping and passive stretching.  Every treatment is, to us, an opportunity to input deep recovery, uniting ambitions and aspirations for well-being.

Treatment from us incorporates gentle adjustments, soft tissue manipulation, and postural advice. Our aim is to advance you steadily, progressing in ways that are realistic and maintainable. We prescribe advice to help you prevent setbacks, suggesting lifestyle changes that may alter and impact your health. Our experience of working with clients has cemented us as leaders of industry-based insight, allowing us to facilitate the body’s recovery by understanding the intricate relationships between its various systems.

Find Us in The Local Area Around Carnoustie For Osteopath Therapy

Visit us for trusted, practical advice on acute symptom relief, remedies and therapy. We’re open from 8.30 AM-7 PM on weekdays, here to provide sports massage, physical therapy and support. By having the right conversation we will find the right solution, delivering strengthening and soothing neck pain treatment through a practising chiropractor working across  Carnoustie, Arbroath, Monifieth and Broughty Ferry.

07706868897
Email:
info@angusclinics.co.uk

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/knee-and-hip-pain-specialists]
Knee & Hip Pain Specialist

Remedial Carnoustie Physio

Angus Clinics provides specialist pain relief to treat injury, dysfunction and muscle damage across Carnoustie, Arbroath, Monifieth and Broughty Ferry.. We recognise that symptoms often manifest as a result of underlying imbalances, finding harmony by applying focused treatment to flagged areas. Through a combination of manual techniques, we facilitate improved blood circulation, lymphatic drainage, and neural function, alleviating immediate symptoms. We aim to guide the body towards a sustainable and resilient recovery, emphasising the importance of restoring balance to enhance overall health.

Our Specialist Knee & Hip Pain Treatment

We focus on applying tension to key areas to stimulate restoration and relieve the body of tightness. Through deep tissue massage, we apply sustained pressure to target the deeper layers of muscles and connective tissues. Aiming to release chronic tension, the process fosters a sense of renewal through concentrated physical application. Useful for combating chronic pain, postural problems and sports-related injuries, the approach applies itself to specific muscle groups within the knee or hip to alleviate stiffness and promote effective restoration.

Our Approach

We aim to educate you, informing you on the physical cause of your injuries to enable you to take control of your recovery. We appreciate the significance of a holistic approach, integrating lifestyle recommendations, nutritional advice, and tailored exercises into our therapy to extend the difference our treatment makes.

Our Diligence

Our diligence sits in our commitment to identify the root cause of your injury and address it immediately, finding remedies that relieve the way you feel. Your body, your fitness and your healing process are what underpin our values. We aim to guide you toward transformation by delivering reputable techniques with a bespoke level of sensitivity and care. Partnering with us means trusting in the way we work, securing tailored progress and physical improvement.

See A Leading Osteopath For Knee & Hip Pain in Carnoustie & Surrounding Areas

Our expertise lies in our awareness of difference, ensuring we provide each client with relief tactics that are right for them. Striving for calm and collectedness, our methods use a hands-on approach with a varied use of pressure to find tense points and ease muscles. Book an appointment to get treatment tailored to you, led by a leading knee and hip pain specialist in Carnoustie, serving locally across Arbroath, Monifieth and Broughty Ferry.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.angusclinics.co.uk/back-pain-specialists]
Back Pain Specialists

Professional Osteopathy in Carnoustie

Angus Clinics focuses on providing elite support across Carnoustie and the surrounding area, specialising in the diagnosis, treatment and management of pain arising from the musculoskeletal system. We focus on understanding the interconnectedness of the body’s structure and function, employing a variety of hands-on techniques, such as joint manipulation, soft tissue massage, and stretching, to restore mobility. By assessing the body as a whole, we aim to identify and address the root cause of discomfort, finding achievable remedies.

Back Pain

Back pain is an acute area of affect, requiring an assessment of the interconnectedness of the musculoskeletal system in diagnosis. Through hands-on techniques like spinal manipulation, soft tissue release, and joint mobilisation, we aim to alleviate tension, restore mobility and promote proper alignment. Through tailored exercise regimens, ergonomic advice, and lifestyle modifications to address the root causes of back pain, we provide restorative care, fostering long-term, targeted relief.

How We Work

Our patient-centred approach strives to empower you to take an active role in your well-being. Our care is comprehensive, personalised and driven, aimed at combating dysfunction and eliminating stimulants of aggravation. We work with you privately, fostering a collaborative relationship that paves the way to transformation.

With over fifteen years of experience working in private practice, we’re able to modify our approach readily, having developed a keen awareness of the body’s adaptive mechanisms and its innate ability to heal. The understanding of the body, muscular disorder, rehabilitation and physical restoration we’ve accrued ensures we’re able to optimise our knowledge to aid you, activating your recovery using our deep and refined intellect. Our insight, understanding and awareness has allowed us to get a firm grasp on the key concepts of physical recovery, recognising the importance of working with you first and foremost in order to do the work we do for you.

Back Pain Treatment, Care & Osteopathy in Carnoustie & The Local Area

Talk to us today for premium advice on lifestyle modifications, exercise, and posture to promote long-term health and prevent future issues with you and your back from a leading osteopath working in Carnoustie, Arbroath, Monifieth and Broughty Ferry.