[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/]
How we work

We’re committed to your wellbeing which means we take a holistic approach to your treatment. Our focus is on understanding your personal goals and motivations along with any perceived roadblocks to recovery.

This allows us to design a bespoke treatment plan which aligns with your individual health goals including mobility and performance. Our therapies are evidence based, result driven and client centered.

We have a special interest in plantar fasciitis, arthritis and complex pain conditions. Over time we have invested in world class technology to improve pain and promote healing including; laser therapy and shockwave therapy along with ‘on the spot’ diagnostic imaging such as diagnostic ultrasound.

^source: Bounce Podiatry’s Patient Feedback Survey, Survey Sparrow (2020-21)
*source – Cliniko (2014 – July 2021)

+500

Cases of heel pain
treated

+3849

Laser Therapy and Shockwave
consults provided*

96%

Patients would recommend Bounce Podiatry
after their first visit^

The services we provide at Bounce Podiatry utilises the latest technology which have proven outcomes internationally. Click on the boxes below to read more about our treatments.

Low Level laser Therapy

Low Level Laser Therapy harnesses the power of light to provide pain relief which enhances your body’s ability to heal.

Shockwave Therapy

Shockwave therapy is a non-invasive treatment. It
works by stimulating the growth of new blood vessels in the tissue which promotes growth factors, increases cell proliferation, decreases inflammation and mobilises stem cells.

PACT med Therapy

A photodynamic antimicrobial therapy, this technology uses light to eliminate fungi, bacteria and viruses.

Virtual Health Consults

a private one-to-one consultation with your podiatrist which is done via video call on your mobile device or computer over a secure internet connection.

Orthotic Therapy

Orthotics are a special shoe insert used to treat numerous foot conditions. This highly effective therapy encourages healthy movement and reduces fatigue as a result of chronic overuse.

Diagnostic Ultrasound

Bounce Podiatry is  the only podiatrist in Western Australia to offer a diagnostic foot ultrasound as part of your routine appointment.

Bounce Podiatry is a Western Australian family owned and operated business. Passionate about individualised care, we’ve grown into being one of the leading progressive podiatry clinics in Perth. We use research and innovative technology to provide expert treatments.

Education Hub

The Bounce Podiatry Education Hub aims to add value to everyone in our community regardless whether they’re an existing patient or not.

Our Education hub is an ever-growing library of videos, articles and downloads. The hub is designed to offer practical advice on the most commonly asked questions relating to podiatry and the various treatment therapies.

Your browser does not support the video tag.

3D Custom Orthotics

08 Oct

Bunions Explained! How Can A Podiatrist REALLY Help?

Intro to Low Level Laser Therapy

Patient Portal

Our Patient Portal provides a quick and easy way to access valuable resources to help you manage your injury or condition wherever you are.

Login

Get instant access to our top 5 tips to improve heel pain

Download our free E-book – 5 Simple steps to improve Heel Pain.

It features practical tips that we share with our clients who suffer with heel pain.

Newly released in May 2020.

Enter your details to download

" indicates required fields

Name *

Email *

CAPTCHA

Give it to me!

We’ll find a solution that suits you

We are committed to solving the problem rather than offering a quick fix. In addition to treatment we’ll provide advice on how you can make small adjustments to reduce your pain, minimise the risk of injury and improve your quality of life.

Our Affiliations

Website by:  Vicki Coupe

IMPORTANT: If you have a fever, cough, sore throat or shortness of breath, please seek medical attention and contact us to reschedule your appointment

Notifications

Back

Laser Therapy

Virtual Health

Conditions

Foot Conditions

Arthritis

Ankle Conditions

Sports Injuries & Conditions

Education

FAQ’s

Bounce Health Co
Bounce Laser & Massage

Menu

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/about-us]
Bounce Podiatry was founded back in 2014 with a mission to improve people’s lives by showing them the power of podiatry.

Our West Australian, family owned and operated business which has developed  into being one of the leading progressive podiatry clinics in Perth. We use research and innovative technology to provide expert care.

We focus on supporting our community through initiatives such as our free community presentations on our focus areas; arthritis, and the feet or heel pain.

Our three pillars:

Passion

We are passionate about podiatry and helping the community.

Performance

We strive to help our clients and community to reach their full potential.

Potential

We are committed to helping our clients and community to perform at their best.

Meet Our Team

Dr Renee Silvester

Podiatrist and Director

An established podiatrist in the Perth community with a special interest in treating complex musculoskeletal conditions. Renee works with her clients using advanced techniques such as Shockwave Therapy and Low Level Laser Therapy. These therapies are effective in managing Plantar Fasciitis (heel pain) and Arthritis.

Dr Paul Doan

Podiatrist

Paul is an enthusiastic podiatrist who graduated with Distinction in the Doctor of Podiatric Medicine course at UWA. He’s passionate about evidence based care and the use of advanced technologies to make sure patients walk away with happy feet. Paul has a special interest in treating musculoskeletal conditions such as heel pain. He also enjoys working with patients affected by metabolic disorders such as diabetes. Paul can converse in Vietnamese.

Dr Kingsley Ung

Kingsley completed his Doctor of Podiatric Medicine at UWA. Since graduating, he’s worked in Kalgoorlie servicing the Goldfields region as well as around metro Perth. Kingsley enjoys all aspects of podiatry with special interests in biomechanics and musculoskeletal conditions.

Dr Taniya Chopra

Taniya completed her undergraduate Podiatry degree at LaTrobe University in Melbourne.She has since worked in a variety of settings including private practice and medical centres, and is a clinical supervisor for the DPM students at UWA.Taniya enjoys all aspects of Podiatry with special interests in musculoskeletal conditions of the feet and lower limb, pain management, conservative and surgical management of ingrown toenails and preventative diabetic foot care.

Taniya recently moved to Perth for a change of scenery and to get away from the cooler Melbourne weather. Outside of work she likes spending time in nature and is enjoying exploring our vast Western Australian state. She looks forward to assisting you in addressing your foot related concerns.

Dr Damyn Packwood-Tuhakaraina

Damyn completed the Doctor of Podiatic Medicine course at UWA. He is enthusiastic about all aspects of podiatry including musculoskeletal conditions, neuropathy and general care. Damyn strives to provide patients with evidence based care to improve outcomes and overall foot health.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/treatments]
Why we do what we do

The services we provide at Bounce Podiatry utilises the latest technology which have proven outcomes internationally. Our particular speciality is treating complex foot and ankle conditions such as Plantar Fasciitis and Arthritis.

To provide the best outcomes for our clients we research and implement emerging technologies and techniques. Click on the images below to read more about our latest treatments. Our other treatments are also listed below.

Additional Treatments

Toenail Surgery

Mobilisation & Manipulation

Myofascial Release

Diabetic Foot Health Review

Pact Nail Fungus Therapy

Dry Needling

Verrucae Surgery

Exercise Prescription

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/treatments/laser-therapy]
About Laser Therapy

Many patients with musculoskeletal conditions look for a natural and non-invasive way to improve their healing. Sometimes just resting and exercise rehab can take months, however there is a way you can speed up the healing.

One method proven to help the recovery process is low level laser therapy (LLLT), otherwise known as photobiomodulation. LLLT is a non-invasive treatment which uses red and near-infrared light to reduce pain and inflammation and works to accelerate tissue repair and regeneration.

LLLT can be used to treat many conditions such as plantar fasciitis (heel pain), tendonitis, arthritis and neurological issues. It’s also used to help with post-operative healing and regeneration.

This treatment works by simulating a photochemical effect which promotes connective tissue cells as well as improving lymphatic drainage to assist with swelling. The laser also dilates the blood vessels in the area of application which works to increase blood flow and tissue repair. Additionally, the body’s nerve signals are regulated by the laser and this reduces pain levels. These mechanisms work together to boost the body’s natural healing process.

Low level laser therapy is highly effective for a wide range of conditions. When combined with the rest of your treatment plan, LLLT gives you the best chance to return to your normal activities safely and injury-free.

LLLT is non-invasive and safe. No harmful side effects associated with LLLT have been reported and the treatment is safe for all ages.

BOUNCE PODIATRY SERVICES

How the treatment works

Boosts Healing

Light emitted from the laser machine increases the energy in the injured cells. This speeds up the healing process.

Improves Pain

Your nerves control your pain signals. Low Level Laser Therapy regulates the nerves to improve your pain levels.

Reduces Inflammation

Nitric Oxide is harmful to the body’s cells. By displacing Nitric Oxide, Low Level Laser Therapy reduces inflammation.

Laser Therapy is able to treat:

Ankle Sprain

Rheumatoid Arthritis

Osteo Arthritis

Lower Back Pain

Leg Swelling

Plantar Fasciitis

Peroneal Tendonitis

Achilles Tendonitis

Post Operative Pain

Nerve Pain

Hip Bursitis

Morton’s Neuroma

Treatment dosage

The recommended treatment dose is twice a week for 3-6 weeks, however this also depends on the severity of the condition.

In clinic results:

Over 3000+ laser treatments conducted.

* Source Cliniko (2014 – July 2021)

Want to know more?

for more information.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/treatments/shockwave-therapy]
About Shockwave Therapy

Shockwave therapy isn’t new to the healing game. Originally used to break up kidney stones in the early 20th century. This therapy has continued to evolve to have a wide application across many conditions that affect the body.

Shockwave utilises acoustic energy which builds up in the body’s cells. The handpiece is applied with a constant pressure to the affected body part. This concentrated effect ensures the body’s cells exert an anti-inflammatory effect which induces healing and reduces pain.

Its use in the lower limb has continued to have many applications primarily treating musculoskeletal conditions such as plantar fasciitis, achilles tendinopathy and patella tendinopathy. It has recently been adapted for osteoarthritis of the knee and big toe joint.

Boost tissue healing

Shockwave therapy provides a mechanical stimulus to the targeted tissue and surrounding area. It’s conducted by pulse acoustic waves and through mechanotransduction. This stimulus kick starts the tissue healing process within the injured tendon, muscles and bone which enhances tissue regeneration and remodeling.

Pain reduction

Clinical evidence proves shockwave therapy significantly reduces pain due to its analgesic effect.

The mechanically induced stimulus increases blood flow and growth factors to the injured sites, which helps in reducing inflammation in the tendons, muscles and bone.

Shockwave Therapy Treats

Ankle Sprains

Muscle Strain

Trigger Points

Plantar Fibroma

Treatment dosage:

The treatment dosage depends on the severity of the condition.

A course of shockwave treatment is usually once a week for 3 consecutive weeks.

We have conducted over 880 shockwave appointments*.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/treatments/orthotic-therapy]
Orthotics

Orthotics alter the biomechanics of your gait and how you run by redistributing the ground reaction forces (the pressure caused by the impact of your foot on the ground). They reduce foot pain and allow us to prevent excessive forces which may lead to injury. There are many different types and materials of orthotics which can be customised to suit you. Due to the flexibility and range of options, orthotics can be used to treat numerous foot conditions. They can even be designed to fit into high heels.

How does this process work?

Foot orthoses (inner soles, orthotics, shoe inserts) come in a variety of different shapes, sizes and materials. At Bounce Podiatry, our custom orthoses are 3D-printed. Made to measure for your feet, they are precisely cut which results in an excellent fit. These are prescribed to suit individual issues.

Custom foot orthoses are recommended for those who:

require a significant degree of control

are hyperirritable to generic orthoses

would like them fitted into special footwear such as footy boots.

The process of making custom foot orthoses starts with a thorough consultation and biomechanical examination with your podiatrist. This allows us to understand your lifestyle. activities and goals. We assess how your entire body functions, what footwear you have and what pathologies or issues you have that can be managed with the orthoses. We take a holistic approach to ensure you receive the most beneficial orthotic prescription.

If the podiatrist deems having foot orthoses is beneficial in your treatment plan, the next step would be to take a 3D laser scan of the foot. A special laser scanner is placed onto a tablet which enables us to take a 3D image of the foot. This process takes less than 5 minutes. It’s safe, non-invasive and much less messy than taking a plaster cast. Everything is digital so the scans are stored and transferred immediately. There’s no risk of losing or damaging things in transit. The cherry on top is that the 3D laser scan of the foot is just as accurate as traditional styles of obtaining foot impressions.

Next, the podiatrist works alongside the orthotic laboratory to create your prescription using a computer-assisted design program.

The prescription depends on

what type of footwear the orthoses will be going into

the shape and biomechanics of the foot

what the podiatrist wants to achieve.

There are hundreds of ways a podiatrist can modify an orthotic prescription to suit each patient.

After previewing the final design, the orthoses are manufactured by a 3D printer which layers the printing material based on the preview model. Once printed, the foot orthoses are hot so they are left to cool for up to 24 hours. The process of making a pair of foot orthoses from a scan takes approximately 3 days, then they’re ready to be sent to the clinic.

Why 3D orthotics over more conventional orthotics?

3D-printed foot orthoses are more sustainable than the conventional alternatives. The 3D production method means there’s less waste because there’s no excess material. On average, we save 1.4 kg of plastic from ending up in our landfills for each pair of 3D-printed foot orthoses manufactured compared to foot orthoses produced via the traditional method. 3D orthotics are

Fast and efficient

Produced with minimal mess

Accurate and effective

Environmentally friendly

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/treatments/pactmed-fungal-therapy]
About PACT med Therapy

Fungal nail infection, or onychomycosis, is a condition where a fungus infiltrates the nail bed and plate. This causes brittle, crumbly and discoloured nails. Often, the main problem is cosmetic in nature due to the change in appearance.

A fungal infection is often stubborn to treat. Oral drugs are the most effective but can potentially cause severe side effects. Topical treatments carry less side effects, however they’re much less effective and can take up to 12 months of continuous application to see results.

How it works

PACT®, or photodynamic antimicrobial therapy, is a treatment that uses a combination of a photosensitizer and a light source. The photosensitizer gel is applied to the affected nails and exposed to a light. The light

interacts with the gel to produce a photochemical reaction which targets infected tissue in and around the nail. This effectively kills the fungus, leaving your nails looking good and free of infection.

The recommended treatment is 3 consecutive sessions within 1 week, followed by a review 4 weeks later. During this time, we recommend you file the nail and apply our topical antifungal compound mixture. This ensures any fungal spores are targeted and killed which delivers the best results.

PACT Fungal Laser Therapy is effective and non-invasive. No systemic side-effects have been reported.

In clinic stats:

Over 350+ Fungal Therapy Reviews Conducted

– Source Cliniko (2014 – July 2021)

Before & After

Before treatment

5 weeks after treatment

11 weeks after treatment

6 months after treatment

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/treatments/diagnostic-ultrasound]
Diagnostic ultrasound is a safe and non-invasive medical imaging modality used to dynamically assess different structures such as muscle, tendon, ligament and bone. Images and video can be taken live to assess how different tissues are behaving. Due to its benefits, there’s a growing body of research to support using ultrasound to assess and review foot and ankle injuries. For example, there’s minimal to no pain or discomfort when having an ultrasound examination.

Bounce podiatrists are experienced in using and interpreting diagnostic ultrasound.  This saves you time as there’s no need to arrange a separate ultrasound. It also means you receive  immediate feedback on your  injury. We use ultrasound to review your progress and to track any changes during your treatment journey.

We commonly use the diagnostic ultrasound to assess many different conditions including: plantar fasciitis and plantar fascia tears, Achilles tendinopathy, heel spurring, Morton’s neuroma/intermetatarsal neuritis, arthritis in the midfoot or big toe joint, bursitis and plantar plate tears.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/treatments/virtual-health]
Bounce Podiatry has introduced an innovative and convenient way to conduct podiatry consultations.

We’re committed to helping you with the following issues;

Constantly in agony when you move around ?

Tired of putting up with your foot pain?

Can’t leave home?

No time to visit a podiatry clinic to get your feet looked at?

Look no further.

The podiatrists at Bounce Podiatry are available to help you get back to feeling your best today – all from the comfort of your own home via video consultation.

What is a virtual podiatry consult?

A virtual podiatry consultation is a private one-to-one consultation which takes place between you and your podiatrist via video call on your mobile device or computer over a secure internet connection.

At Bounce Podiatry, much of what we need to do in a face-to-face consultation can also be done over the internet using a simple and easy platform.

We’re able to understand your problems by asking you to perform a series of specific assessments to allow us to understand your foot concerns.

At the end of your extended virtual consultation, we provide a patient specific management plan and/or exercise program to help you get back to feeling your best.

Conditions we can treat virtually

Possible podiatry conditions we can treat virtually include (but are not limited to):

Heel pain / plantar fasciitis management

Tendinopathies (i.e. Achilles, peroneals)

Sports injuries

Ankle injuries

Skin conditions

Verrucae (commonly known as warts)

Orthotic reviews (drops and send)

Fungal reviews

Nail conditions

01.

You’ll  receive a confirmation email and a link to your video appointment after booking.

02.

If you’re a new patient, an information sheet will be sent out for you to fill out prior to the appointment. This ensures the podiatrist has adequate information to help you during your consultation.

03.

Prior to the appointment, you receive an email from your podiatrist inviting you to join the video call via a link

04.

Join the video call at the time of your appointment

Frequently Asked Questions

How much does it cost?

Show  +

Our normal billing process and fees are charged based on the consultation type.

Will Medicare cover my online consultation?

In the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, Medicare has made Tele-health consultation available for all allied health services for patients with an existing chronic disease management (CDM) plan, which they will be fully bulk-billed.

For patients without a CDM plan, medicare will only pay for a face-to-face consultation.

Can I claim this through private health?

Online consultation can only be claimed through selected private health funds. Please check with them prior to choosing to claim for a virtual consultation.

How do I pay for an online consult?

At the time of booking your extended virtual consultation payment will be required. This will be performed through Medipass or Stripe.

What if I need to cancel or reschedule a session?

Hide  -

We understand that things happen that may stop you from attending your scheduled session. If you need to cancel we require 24 hours’ notice. To avoid paying a cancellation fee, we require you to reschedule the new appointment within 24 hours either side of your original appointment.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions]
Conditions Podiatry Can Help With

Podiatry can assist with many conditions that affect not only the feet, but other lower limb conditions.

Jump to:
Please select… Foot Conditions Ankle Conditions Sports Injuries & Conditions Arthritis

The following conditions affect the foot. Click the link to read more about the foot conditions, their causes and their treatment options.

Bunions

Metatarsal Stress Fractures

Flat Foot

Fungal Nails

Ingrown Toenails

Toe Deformity

The following conditions affect the ankle. Click the link to read more about the conditions, their causes and their treatment options.

Flexor Hallucis Longus Tendonitis

Posterior Ankle Impingement

Severs Disease

Shin Splints

The following injuries and conditions can benefit from podiatry. Click the link to read more about the conditions, and their treatment options.

Knee Pain

The following arthritic conditions affect the lower limb. Click the link to read more about the conditions, their causes and their treatment options.

Diabetes

Gout

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/education]
Featured Article

Beginner Exercises for Lower Limb Strength: Prehabilitation, Prevention, and Maintenance

By: Renee Silvester
24 July

Whether you aim to prevent injuries, perform prehabilitation, or maintain your lower limb health, these beginner exercises are perfect for kickstarting your journey towards lower limb strength. Let’s dive in! These easy beginner exercises are a fantastic starting point for your lower limb strength journey. By incorporating the wall...

Exercise, Motivation, Arthritis, Diabetes, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteo Arthritis, Injuries, Injury Prevention, Uncategorised

Filter by category:
All posts Uncategorised Heel Pain Injury Management Injury Prevention Podiatrics Arthritis Diabetes Rheumatoid Arthritis Osteo Arthritis Gout Injuries Running Exercise Motivation Footwear Netball Knee Pain Children's Feet Foot Strapping Ankle Orthotics Nail Fungal Nails

The Power of Stretching: Lower Limb Prehabilitation, Prevention, and Maintenance

21 July

Exercise, Motivation, Arthritis, Diabetes, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteo Arthritis, Injuries, Injury Prevention

Read Article

Assessing yourself at home

25 May

Exercise, Motivation, Arthritis, Diabetes, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteo Arthritis, Gout, Injuries, Injury Prevention

Why is prehabilitation important for the lower limb?

Exercise, Motivation, Arthritis, Injuries

The BEST Tips When Shopping For Kids!

01 November
Children's Feet

Children's Feet, Footwear

View Video

Foot

Orthotics, Strapping, Foot, Footwear, Podiatrics

How does diabetes affect the lower limb?

Foot, Diabetes

Intro to PACT® Nail Fungus Therapy

Nail Fungal

Treating and Managing Diabetic Neuropathy

Treating Kids Feet

Orthotics, Children's Feet

What is Shockwave Therapy?

Heel Pain

Knee Pain, Heel Pain, Podiatrics

Ankle, Foot, Knee Pain, Arthritis, Heel Pain

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/contact]
To book an appointment or ask a question, you can contact us using the form or by the details above.

We’d love to hear from you!

Clinic Address

12/11 Wentworth Parade

Success, WA 6164

Get Directions

Clinic Hours

Monday
1.30pm – 5.30pm

Tuesday to Thursday
8.30am – 6.00pm

Friday
8.30am – 3.30pm

Saturday
8.30am – 1.00pm

Sunday and Public Holidays
We Are Closed

If you are new to our clinic please complete our New Patient Form.

New Patient Form

Subject

Treatment Services Virtual Health Patient Portal Join Our Team General Enquiry

Message *

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/information/faqs]
How Much Is A Consultation?

Each consultation is dependent on the type of treatment given and how long the appointment is. If you have never been to Bounce Podiatry before, you will need to book an initial consultation. An initial consultation will be $165. From there, a podiatrist will be able to determine the course of treatment needed for your particular concern and we will be able to let you know how much each consultation will cost.

Will This Cure Me? How Do I Know This Will Work?

We have seen great results treating patients with various different conditions. We are unable to say for certain whether or not our treatment options can ‘cure’ you without knowing of your condition fully. We suggest booking an initial appointment to see one of our friendly and highly skilled podiatrists and they will be able to go more in depth with your condition and let you know which treatments will be best for you personally.

Do I Need A Referral To Book An Appointment?

No referral is needed when wanting to attend our practice.  You just simply book in for a consultation with one of our friendly podiatrists and we will see you at our next available appointment.

Where Are You Located?

We are now located in Aubin Grove. Our address is Unit 4/14 Mapleton Avenue, Aubin Grove, 6164. For more information  click here

Can I Use Private Health Insurance?

We do accept private health insurance. We do not have a preferred provider so any health fund can be used. We have a hicaps machine on site so will be able to process the claim for you on the day of your appointment.

Do You Accept Care Plans?

We do accept care plans, however it is important to note that we do not bulk bill. This means that for any consultation under this care plan, there will be a small out of pocket cost.

Do You Bulk Bill?

We do not bulk-bill any of our services however, we do accept care plans. This means that for any consultation you have under the government issued plan there will be an out of pocket cost.

I Have Never Been To Bounce Podiatry Before, What Treatment Should I Book In For?

Because you are new to the practise we would need you to book in for an initial consultation. This is a 40 minute consult where the podiatrist you see will be able to go through your concerns and the treatment options available to you. If you are interested in a specific treatment such as  Low laser therapy
or  shockwave therapy
then you can state this in the ‘additional notes’ section when booking online, or simply use our live chat or  call us.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/patient-portal]
Welcome

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/information/booking-policy]
By using the online bookings system you agree that you are able to attend the booked appointment.

Any cancelations will need to be made at least 48 hours before your scheduled appointment time. Failure to do so will result in a cancelation fee being issued. This fee will depend on when you cancel your appointment. A cancelation 48hours before the appointment will result in 25% of the consultation fee being charged, 24hours before will result in 50% of the consultation fee being charged. Discretion will be granted in extraordinary circumstances.

For failing to show up to a booked appointment without notification will incur a full consultation fee.

Please help us by giving appropriate warning so that other people who may need to attend can use that allocated time. Thank you for your understanding.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/foot-conditions/bunions]
Bunion (Hallux abducto-valgus) is a large bony bump at the base of the big toe due to deviation of the big toe joint.

Bunions, especially severe deformities, can often be painful to walk on. They can also cause skin irritation like callous, corns, and blisters. Larger bunions can also make finding suitable footwear challenging.

Causes

Genetic

People with underlying conditions such as flat feet, hypermobility, rheumatoid arthritis may contribute to bunion formation

Poorly fitting shoes i.e shoes with high heels and / or narrow toe box.

Bunion formation can alter the foot’s biomechanics, putting increased pressure on other parts of the body and lower limb such as the knees, hips and back.

Sometimes, bunion formation can lead to osteoarthritis in the big toe, which can restrict the movement at the joint, causing pain.

Treatment options

Footwear – we recommend appropriate footwear with enough width and depth to accommodate the bunion. Orthotic therapy – custom or off-the-shelf foot orthosis can help improve the foot alignment and works to redistribute pressure under the feet. This will help reduce some of the excessive pressure at the bunion.

Orthotics
– can provide along term solution to managing painful symptoms. They can effectively redistribute pressure to offload the painful joint.

Strapping – this provides immediate support and pain relief to the big toe joint.

Low level laser therapy
– helps to reduce localised joint inflammation and pain.

Myofascial release therapy – helps by reducing tightness in the muscles of the foot which support the big toe joint.

Surgery – depending on the severity of the bunion, surgery may be recommended.

Other Foot Conditions

Related Resources

24 July

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/foot-conditions/flat-feet]
Flat Feet

The arch plays an important role in lower limb biomechanics; it helps propel the body over the foot during walking whilst also assisting in shock absorption. The muscles and ligaments supporting the arch are stretched in a pes planus foot. This stops the function of the ‘windlass mechanism’, which is responsible for assisting the body to propel forward.

Flat feet in children

It is common for young infants and toddlers to have a flat foot appearance. This is because the arch is not fully developed. During the ages of 4 and 6 the arch will form its shape. If your child is having difficulty walking and experiencing pain, it is important to get a podiatrist to assess them. For example, they may be walking oddly or limping during walking. They may get tired and want to be picked up. The child may also be rubbing their knees, legs, ankles or feet in a sign of pain or discomfort.

Flat feet in adults

Flat feet can be ‘acquired’ as an adult. This is generally due to injury, illness and increased stresses to the foot or from poor biomechanics. It is important to know the foot also changes with age. There are two types of flat feet: rigid and flexible. Other risk factors are pregnancy, obesity, hypertension, diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis. Symptoms of painful flat feet are similar to a child – tired feet, aching, muscle cramps and aches, knee, hip and back pain.

If you are not experiencing any pain or discomfort, then treatment may not be necessary. Usually treatment will be tailored to manage painful symptoms through physical therapies such as low level laser therapy and joint mobilisation. Orthotic devices are effective at improving the foot biomechanics. They help to lift the arch which reduces the strain on the supporting muscles and ligaments. Exercise prescription is often required to strengthen the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles of the foot. A rigid flat foot may require surgery. This is very rare, however your podiatrist will be able to assist in diagnosing this.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/foot-conditions/mortons-neuroma]
What is it?

Morton’s Neuroma is a common cause of forefoot pain.

It often feels like marble is stuck in the ball of the foot. You may get a burning sensation, tingling and pins and needles in the toes. A Morton’s Neuroma is an irritation of the nerve between two digits, typically between the 3rd and 4th digits. The nerve may be swollen or increased in size.

There are multiple contributors to the cause, including your foot shape, tight footwear and other diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis. It’s more common in females over 35 years old.

Initial treatment options include offloading the area with
orthotics
, and reducing local inflammation through physical therapies such as dry needling and
low level laser therapy

The podiatrist will recommend appropriate footwear options. If there’s any biomechanical problem, the podiatrist will address this with their orthotic prescription or exercise prescription. Usually these options can provide significant relief.

Otherwise a cortisone injection may provide temporary pain relief, although this is not a cure. Long-term management for the non-resolving Morton’s Neuroma is ethanol ablation, radiofrequency ablation and neurectomy.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/foot-conditions/fungal-toenails]
Fungal Toenails

Fungal nail infection (onychomycosis) occurs when a fungus spreads under a nail and into the nail bed causing brittle, crumbly and discoloured nails. It can spread to the nail from a nearby skin infection and affect several nails. Fungi generally thrive in hot and moist environments, which is often why it’s more common in toenails rather than fingernails.

There are different types of fungus which cause fungal nail infection, These treatments don’t always penetrate the nail plate and, as a result, may not work in all cases. Oral antifungals may be recommended for an infection which

covers the majority of the nail

is in the base of the nail

is deep.

Antifungals are prescribed by your GP after carefully evaluating your health status. Note – these medications can have significant side effects.

Our clinic also offers PACT Fungal Nail Laser Therapy –  an innovative and non-invasive treatment which uses photodynamic therapy to eliminate fungi in the nail.

Your podiatrist can recommend a course of treatment as well as ways to prevent recurrence. Podiatrists also have special tools to reduce and manage the thickness of fungal nails. This makes it easier for the nail to absorb topical medications and also improves the appearance. The nail feels more comfortable through the use of dermatophytes, yeast and moulds.

Often, the main problem is cosmetic in nature due to the change in appearance of the nail. This condition rarely causes pain and odour.

Fungal nail infection is usually diagnosed clinically due to its fairly distinctive appearance on the nail. Sometimes other conditions such as psoriasis can mimic fungal nail infection. If there’s any doubt, you may be referred to your GP for testing of nail samples to identify the underlying cause

Risk factors:

Poor circulation

Problems with your immune system

Working in a humid or moist environment

Excessively sweaty feet/skin.

Wearing enclosed footwear with poor ventilation and/or doesn’t absorb sweat.

Being barefoot in public areas where there is high footfall (eg. public pools, gyms, changerooms).

Treatment:

A fungal infection is often stubborn to treat and recurrence is common. It can take a year before the nail starts to appear normal, but this depends on the rate of nail growth and how consistent you are with treatment.

Topical antifungals are recommended if the infection is superficial or affects the end of the nail. These treatments don’t always penetrate the nail plate, and as result, may not work in all cases. Oral antifungals may be recommended for infection which

covers the entire nail

affects the base of the nail

is deep

These are prescribed by your GP after carefully evaluating your health status as these medications can have significant side effects.

Your podiatrist can recommend a course of treatment as well as ways to prevent recurrence. Podiatrists also have special tools to reduce and manage the thickness of fungal nails. This makes it easier for the nail to absorb topical medications, improves the appearance and provides more comfort to the patient.

In clinic statistic:

Pactmed fungal laser therapy can improve the appearance of fungal nails in 80% of cases

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/foot-conditions/plantar-fasciitis]
Plantar fasciitis is inflammation of the plantar fascia and is one of the most common causes of heel pain. The plantar fascia is a thick and fibrous band of tissue on the sole of the foot connecting the heel to the toes. It provides shock absorption and stability to the foot to maintain normal motion when walking.

Typically, plantar fasciitis causes a stabbing or aching pain in the inner heel or sole of the foot and is worse when taking your first steps in the morning. It can ease with walking, but a lot of people experience worsening pain after a long day standing or walking, or when standing after sitting for a long period of time.

Causes:

Plantar fasciitis is considered an overuse injury. This means if the tissue is stressed and overstretched it can cause micro-tears. The body repairs these tears with scar tissue, which is less tensile than normal tissue and makes the plantar fascia more prone to repetitive tearing. This initiates a cycle of tearing, inflammation, scarring and thickening of the plantar fascia, which causes irritation and pain. If left untreated, this cycle causes the condition to worsen over time.

Foot shapes – flat footed or high arched

Younger people – running and dancing

Older people – walking in poor footwear

Overweight

Long hours standing

Tightness in the calves and hamstrings

Treatment options:

A full biomechanical assessment should be performed to identify any of the above-mentioned risk factors. Initial management with ibuprofen can provide immediate relief. Plantar fasciitis is best managed with a combination of soft tissue therapy such as low-level laser therapy, shockwave therapy, myofascial release or dry needling, as well as exercise therapy, strapping and activity modification. Footwear assessment and modification as well as orthotics may be needed to correct contributing biomechanical issues. Your podiatrist can put together a comprehensive treatment plan suited to your needs to get you back on your feet pain-free!

500+ cases of heel pain treated – source Cliniko (2014 – July 2021)

01 November
Heel Pain

Strapping for Heel Pain

Strapping, Foot, Heel Pain, Injury Management

Easy Exercises for Managing Heel Pain

Foot, Heel Pain, Injury Management

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/foot-conditions/ingrown-toenails]
Ingrown nails occur when the edges of the nail grow into the skin surrounding the nails. It’s one of the most commonly seen nail conditions in a podiatry clinic.

Patients often present with painful toe(s) with swelling around the affected nails, redness, pus or even an abscess.

Pressure from ill-fitting footwear

Improper nail trimming

Trauma on the toe

Fungal nail infection

Abnormal shaping of the nail plate – flat, wide, curled, pincer-like

Any disease that cause an abnormal nail plate (i.e. psoriasis)

​Treatment options:

Remove the offending nail spicule (procedure to be carried out by a podiatrist with sterile instruments)

Footwear changes – good fitting shoes with wide and deep toe box is recommended to prevent excessive pressure on the toes

Proper nail trimming technique – cut your nails straight across and keep the nails at moderate length (not too long or too short)

Nail surgery – permanently removing the offending portion of the nail with an in-office, minimally invasive surgical procedure is recommended for recurrent cases.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/ankle-conditions/achilles-tendonitis]
Achilles tendinopathy / tendinitis is one of the most common overuse injuries that causes pain, swelling, stiffness and weakness of the Achilles tendon.

Achilles tendon is the largest tendon in the body which connects the calf muscle at the back of the lower leg to the heel bone.

It’s commonly seen in runners, ballet dancers or athletes whose sports include repetitive jumping movements.

People suffering with achilles tendinopathy usually experience pain along the mid portion and / or insertional area of the tendon at the back of the heel bone.

Cause:

Poor fitting shoes

Poor technique and biomechanics

Overuse / weakness in particular muscle group

Poor flexibility

Difference in training surface

Inefficient recovery period

Changes in training programme such as sudden increase in training intensity

The conservative treatment options depend on the severity of the injury. Options include:

Rest / activity modification – to allow injured tissue sufficient amount of recovery period / time.

Address contributing biomechanical factors via orthotics / footwear modifications.

Physical therapy – home stretch and strengthening program is recommended to improve the tendon’s tolerance to load. Any improper training technique errors should also be corrected.

Manual therapy including myofascial release joint mobilisation or taping are recommended to improve the range and quality of movement.

Adjunct therapy such as low level laser therapy and shockwave therapy.

Conservative therapy should be instigated for 3-6 months before considering other therapy such as injection therapy or surgery.

Other Ankle Conditions

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/ankle-conditions/severs-disease]
Sever’s Disease

Sever’s disease is a condition which can result in debilitating heel pain. It affects kids and adolescents typically between the ages of 8 and 14. The condition is also known as calcaneal apophysitis, as there is inflammation and irritation of the growth plate (apophysis) in the heel bone (calcaneus).

This affliction is more common in kids who are highly active and participate in a lot of high-impact physical activity which involve running and jumping such as Aussie Rules Football or basketball. Kids may complain of pain during or after sport in the heel, instep and calf. They may also limp or toe walk to try to alleviate their symptoms. Pressing or squeezing the heel will also elicit symptoms and generally kids will feel better if they’ve rested.

Having very tight calf muscles can increase the tensile forces placed on the growth plate. Having abnormal foot posture or biomechanics can also be a contributing factor. Kids with flat feet can place more strain on the surrounding soft tissues whilst those with very high arched feet will have less shock absorbency and more direct pressure on the heel.

Self care includes resting the feet and reducing or modifying high-impact activity. This is key to a faster recovery in order to reduce irritation to the growth plate. Massaging the feet and calves along with gentle stretching will reduce any tightness and pull on the heel bone which gradually reduces pain. Applying a cold compress straight after activity will help with the initial inflammation, and transitioning to a heat pack later in the day or evening will also help with pain.

What our podiatrists will do when they suspect Sever’s is to perform a detailed biomechanical assessment in order to formulate a clinical diagnosis, as medical imaging is rarely indicated. From there, our discussions will provide a bespoke treatment plan based on the child’s activity and presentation. This includes:

discussing load management on the heels

return to activity plan

strapping to offload

exercise rehabilitation

heel lifts

appropriate footwear recommendations and modifications

dry needling and massage

over-the-counter or custom foot orthoses if needed

low level laser therapy.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/sports-injuries-conditions/ankle-sprains]
The three ligaments  that are commonly injured in a lateral ankle sprain (rolling out ankle) are the anterior talofibular ligament, calcaneofibular ligament, and posterior talofibular ligaments. There are many grades of ankle sprain, however if you can’t bear weight after a sprain, it’s time to go straight to the emergency department.

After an ankle sprain, you may feel pain on the outside of the ankle and notice swelling and bruising. You may also find walking is difficult. RICE is most important straight after an acute ankle injury. Rest, ice, compress and elevate the area. By seeing a  podiatrist early after an ankle sprain  can help manage painful symptoms and promote faster healing. This is done by having a thorough assessment to determine the degree of injury and treatment which may include low level laser which stimulates tissue repair and reduces swelling. Appropriate rehabilitation of the ankle is crucial in preventing recurrent ankle instability; this can include graded exercises for proprioception, strength and flexibility. This should hopefully reduce the need for any further surgical intervention down the track.

Other injuries & Conditions

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/sports-injuries-conditions/knee-pain]
Knee pain can be caused by any of the bony structures compromising the knee joint (femur, tibia, fibula), the kneecap (patella), ligaments, tendons, and cartilage (menisci) of the knee. The three main risk factors of knee pain are overuse, biomechanics, and excessive stress. Knee pain can be reduced by the alteration of biomechanics for a more even distribution of pressure throughout the joint – this can help to reduce the pain. If the knee pain has been present for more than a week, it’s time to book an appointment to get assessed.

Rest – if you are physically active, take a break / modify your normal activities to allow the injured tissue sufficient time to heal. It also helps reduce repetitive strain on the knees and prevent further damage.

Compression – this helps prevent fluid build up around the injured tissues as well as maintaining knee alignment and stability. You can either use a compression bandage or a knee brace (available in shops).

Pain relief medication such as paracetamol, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) helps with reducing pain.

Physical therapy – stretching and strengthening the muscles around the knees helps increase joint mobility and stabilising the knees. This also reduces the risk of recurring incidence of knee injury

Orthotic therapy
– when knee pain is associated with abnormal biomechanics and / or conditions such as osteoarthritis, orthotic therapy can help by correcting the alignment of the foot and lower limb. Having corrective orthosis helps shift the pressure away from the sides of the knees.

Low level laser therapy
-this helps by reducing localised inflammation and swelling. It also provides an analgesic effect on the affected sides.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/arthritis/osteoarthritis]
Osteoarthritis (OA)

Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis.

It’s understood to be a form of degeneration within a joint which is caused by mechanical stress. Symptoms include pain, tenderness, stiffness and mild swelling. The pain is often described as a sharp ache or constant low grade pain.

Osteoarthritis can affect all areas of the body including the feet, hands, knees, hips and spine. The joints can change shape, often becoming enlarged. In the feet, it contributes to the formation of bunions. Diagnosis is based on history and clinical examination. An x-ray can assist in the diagnosis.

Lifestyle changes are important in the management of osteoarthritis, such as losing weight. Tailored exercise programs can improve the function and pain for OA in the hip and knee. The use of physical therapies such as dry needling and
low level laser therapy
can reduce localised pain and swelling.

Orthotic therapy
can be useful to provide cushioning and offloading of painful joints in the feet. Different orthotic wedging can also affect knee and hip osteoarthritis. Your podiatrist will recommend footwear to assist with foot deformity caused by osteoarthritis.

Other treatment options include

Steroid injections.

Pain medication.

Surgery – this can be discussed with your podiatrist.

There is substantial evidence to support the use of low level laser therapy in treating OA along with exercise.

We routinely use this low level laser therapy as a primary treatment option to manage painful arthritic presentations.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/conditions/arthritis/diabetes]
Diabetes is a serious chronic health condition which occurs when there is too much glucose in the blood.

Diabetes can cause significant complications for the feet and legs.

Feet are at risk because diabetes can cause damage to the nerves and the blood supply. The damage is more likely if

You’ve had diabetes for a long time

You smoke.

You drink excessively

Your blood glucose levels have been too high for a long period of time

You’re inactive.

Even if the above factors don’t apply to you, this doesn’t mean you won’t  experience nerve damage or reduced blood supply. Everyone with diabetes should arrange to have regular foot examinations by a podiatrist. How often these check-ups should be will depend on the extent of your overall foot health.

Blood supply

People with diabetes are more at risk of developing blockages in their arteries or hardening of the arteries. Symptoms include

Sharp leg cramps in the calves after walking short distances or uphill.

Cold feet.

Pale skin colour.

No hair on the feet.

The skin may be shiny and taut.

Cuts or injuries which are slow to heal.

If you have any of these signs/symptoms, we recommend you see a podiatrist or health care practitioner for further assessment.

Nerve Damage

Poor blood glucose control can lead to nerve damage. The nerves affected are generally your sensory nerves (the ability to feel), those which supply your muscles and those which supply the sweat glands. The symptoms are:

Pins and needles or tingling in the feet and/or legs.

Numbness in the feet.

Burning pain in the legs and feet, often felt at night

Gradually worsening hammer toes and loss of muscle tone in the forefoot

Drier skin on the feet

Often the nerve damage goes unnoticed and you may not realise you have nerve damage until you go for a foot check. Nerve damage increases the risk of accidental injury to the feet. This can develop into an ulcer or sore on the foot, which can penetrate to the bone. This in turn could lead to osteomyelitis (bone infection) and a chronic infection in the bones and joints. If an infection isn’t treated at the earliest signs, this could result in ulceration (an infected open sore) and eventually amputation (removal of a toe, foot or limb).

If you have diabetes, it is recommended you have a foot check/assessment at least once a year. If you have any complications, your feet should be checked every 3-6 months. A visit to a podiatrist will also show you how to check and care for your feet. Our podiatrists will  assess your footwear, functional range of motion, muscle strength and your skin and nails.

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/education/page/2]
At Home Series

Intro to Managing Diabetic Neuropathy

Part 2

Part 1

29 October
Injury Management

Foot, Injuries, Heel Pain, Injury Management

How to get running again in summer

01 February
Running

Running, Injury Prevention

Common Paediatric Issues Podiatrists Can Treat.

27 August

Knee Pain, Netball, Running, Arthritis, Heel Pain, Podiatrics

How You Can Overcome Your Anxiety To See A Podiatrist

12 August
Motivation

What Is Hyper-Mobility and How Will It Affect My Child?

04 July

Children's Feet, Injuries, Injury Management, Injury Prevention

Treating Flat Feet In Kids

28 May

Children's Feet, Podiatrics

Commonly Asked Questions – Severs Disease

01 June

Injuries, Heel Pain, Injury Management, Injury Prevention, Podiatrics

What To Do About Adolescent Bunions?

25 August

Podiatrics

How Can Arthritis Impact Your Life and Feet?

23 April
Arthritis

Motivation, Arthritis, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Osteo Arthritis, Gout

Heel Pain – What you need to know!

20 February

Footwear, Heel Pain, Injury Management

---

[SOURCE: https://bouncepodiatry.com.au/education/page/3]
How do you prepare for winter sports?

09 February
Exercise

Running, Exercise, Footwear, Injury Prevention

The biggest mistake with applying RICE

02 February

Injury Management

When should I replace my running shoes?

Footwear

Running, Footwear, Injury Prevention

Is stretching relevant for the recreational runner?

Stop making excuses and make it a habit

01 February
Motivation

Running, Exercise, Motivation, Footwear

World Diabetes Day: How Diabetes Can Affect Your Feet?

14 November
Diabetes