[SOURCE: https://www.myallmassage.com.au/]
top of page

Myall Massage Clinic

Your path to wellness

Welcome to

Opening Hours

Wednesday

Thursday

Friday

Saturday

Sunday

9am - 5pm

Address

68 Coupland Avenue

Tea Gardens

NSW 2324

Tel - 0427 301 706

- 02 4997 1608

Welcome to our amazing clinic with expert practitioners, beautiful gardens, spacious treatment rooms and large carpark. With over 30 years experience our dedicated team of qualified professionals are here to provide you with the experience and service you deserve. Relieve your body of stress, tension, headaches, back pain, muscular problems or simply to enjoy the pure pleasure of relaxation. Massage may soften and mobilise muscles that have become tight and contracted. Massage will leave you feeling relaxed, calm and in an enhanced state of well being.

Relax

Unwind

Treat yourself

Relieve pain

Give the gift of wellness.

A gift certificate for Myall Massage is the perfect gift

PRACTITIONER

Kate
is an accredited therapist ready to assist you

Proud member of

HOW TO FIND US

68 Coupland Avenue Tea Gardens

CUSTOMER REVIEWS

Highly recommend! It was the best massage I ever had and will definitely come again! Thank you so much!

Becca Isaac

My husband and I just had a lovely massage by a wonderful lady. Made our anniversary weekend away completely relaxed, thank you.

Kellie Eliz

Kate gave me the best massage... Looking forward to receiving another one next weekend while I'm back in Hawks Nest for the weekend. A heartfelt thank you Kate.

Elizabeth Ellen

Health Fund approved

eftpos available

Wheelchair ramp & disabled toilet

bottom of page

---

[SOURCE: https://www.myallmassage.com.au/our-team]
ABOUT  US

With over 30 years experience Kathryn (Kate) is a qualified professional here to provide you with the experience and service you deserve. Relieve your body of stress, tension, headaches, back pain, muscular problems or simply to enjoy the pure pleasure of relaxation.

OUR PRACTITIONER

Kathryn Wilson

30 years experience

Remedial deep tissue massage, lymphatic drainage, pre and post surgery

---

[SOURCE: https://www.myallmassage.com.au/services]
AVAILABLE

Remedial Massage  is a complementary therapy which aims to treat muscles that are damaged, tense or immobile. It is useful for a number of problems that affect the muscles, tendons and bones.

Lymphatic Drainage

Lymphatic drainage is a technique developed in Germany for the treatment of Lymphedema - an accumulation of fluid that can occur after lymph nodes have been removed during surgery, most often in breast cancer, however certain heart conditions or medication may also affect the lymphatic system.

Hot Stones

During a hot stone massage, the techniques of a regular massage are applied. However, the therapist also works with hot stones that are placed on specific parts of the body.  The warmed stones assist to promote better blood flow, release toxins and create a deeper muscle relaxation than in a standard massage. By placing the warmed stones over acupressure points you can help release the flow of energy and promote the body's own healing process.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.myallmassage.com.au/locations]
CLINIC LOCATION

Mobile: 0427301706

Ph: 02 4997 1608

Fax: 02 4997 2461

Email:  myallmassage@live.com.au

Hicaps and eftpos available

EPC Programs / DVA / Care plans /

Compo claims

---

[SOURCE: https://www.myallmassage.com.au/contact-us]
Member of

Thanks for submitting!