[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/]
PCOS has a new name! Learn more about PMOS.

KimGatenby
May 13, 2026
Fertility
0 comments

Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) has confused both doctors and patients for many years because the name focuses narrowly on ovarian changes that are not present in every person with the condition. You can have polycystic ovaries on ultrasound, and not meet the diagnostic criteria for the syndrome. I have personally encountered many patients each year who are unsure if they just have polycystic ovaries or polycystic ovarian syndrome. It usually takes a bit of detective work and reviewing old blood tests to discover which diagnosis they actually have.

Table of Contents

Toggle

PCOS to PMOS

So what’s the new name for PCOS that will hopefully lead to less confusion? PMOS. Polyendocrine Metabolic Ovarian Syndrome. This name alludes to the fact that there are metabolic elements, as well as hormonal dysregulation, and it’s not just an ovarian-based condition.

The hope is that the new name of PMOS will help people receive a diagnosis of their condition sooner, allowing for increased support. Given that 170 million people worldwide have PMOS, this is a significant public health issue.

What is PMOS?

Let’s break down the new name further to help give a more thorough understanding of what PMOS entails.

The metabolic factors may include blood sugar dysregulation, obesity, hypertension, type 2 diabetes, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and cardiovascular disease, and sleep apnoea. Reproductive features may include infertility, irregular menstruation, ovulatory dysfunction, endometrial cancer (from unopposed oestrogen due to ovulatory dysfunction), and pregnancy complications. Psychological components may include depression, anxiety, and disordered eating. Dermatological factors that have an endocrine (hormone) basis may include acne, hirsutism (excess hair growth on the body) or alopecia (hair loss).

As you can see, there are many possible symptoms covering numerous systems in the body. Not all symptoms and signs will be apparent in every person, which is what makes the syndrome complicated from a healthcare perspective. Moving beyond a narrow focus on ovarian appearance allows us to better recognise PMOS as a complex, multifactorial condition affecting multiple body systems.

References

Teede H, Khomami M, Morman R et al.

Polyendocrine metabolic ovarian syndrome, the new name for polycystic ovary syndrome: a multistep global consensus process

The Lancet, 2026; 0

Congratulations to my lecturer, Dr Michael Costello, for his involvement in the above paper.

Share this:

Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook

Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X

Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Pinterest

Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email

Related posts:

Natural Killer (NK) Cells & Fertility
Fragmented Embryos : Can Acupuncture or Chinese Medicine help?
Low Ovarian Reserve & Egg Quality Tips
Which Fertility Tests Should I Get?

Submit a Comment
Cancel reply

Your email address will not be published.
Required fields are marked  *

Comment  *

Name  *

Email  *

Website

Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Notify me of follow-up comments by email.

Notify me of new posts by email.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/about-kim]
Kim Gatenby

M Repro Med, Ba App Sci (TCM).

With 19 years experience as a fully qualified acupuncturist, plus a master’s degree in reproductive medicine, Kim is a passionate and experienced practitioner whose goal is to help you achieve your best health, reproductively or in general.

After graduating with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Traditional Chinese Medicine in 2007, Kim has worked in the health industry ever since, helping people in Sydney’s Hills district and Lower North Shore, and now in the Mid North Coast area with a new space at
The Wellness Collective
in Wauchope and
Physio Collective
in Port Macquarie.

Kim’s passion is helping unlock your full potential through improved energy, better sleep, and guidance with lifestyle measures that can keep you feeling your best.

Kim’s main area of interest is
reproductive health
for women and men, and she’s so passionate about this field that she also educates other practitioners in fertility care, and has won awards for her presentations.

If you are seeking higher level reproductive support, Kim has a partnership with
Demeter Fertility
in Sydney, allowing you to have continuity of care throughout your IVF journey. Kim works closely with the team at Demeter to support you through your IVF cycle, while giving you the most holistic reproductive care available in Australia.

With so much passion for her craft, you are in good hands with Kim at the Wauchope clinic, Port Macquarie clinic, or through online consults (known as TeleHealth).

Qualifications

Ba Applied Science (Traditional Chinese Medicine) 2007

Master of Reproductive Medicine (with Excellence) 2022

Certificate Heated Stone Massage

Certificate Sports Nutrition

Member
ESHRE
AACMA
. AHPRA registered.

Recent additional studies

Autoimmune diseases, management with TCM.

Confident & Safe prescribing alongside pharmaceuticals for better patient outcomes.

Cardiovascular disease: the critical gaps in current management and the central role of the natural medicine practitioner.

Lab Testing & Hormonal Assessment For Infertility.

Infertility and Recurrent Pregnancy Loss – It Could Be Subclinical Hypothyroid.

The treatment of infertility: full course.

Female Hormonal Disorders.

Chronic fatigue, fibromyalgia and pain syndromes.

Male fertility – treatment of infertility.

Pain, Inflammation & Immune Driven conditions.

Functional Psychiatry: the biology of emotion.

Dysbiosis & disease.

Japanese Cosmetic Acupuncture/BiYo Shin Kyu: The Kitagawa Method.

Re-awakening Qi Flow Through Scarred Meridians.

The Importance of Nurturing the Foetus Through the Pregnancy.

Interpreting Blood Tests According to Chinese Medicine.

Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome Course

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/bookings]
To book with Kim for acupuncture in Port Macquarie, Wauchope or online for TeleHealth/mentoring, please use the below booking form.

To book with Lisa at Dural or St Leonards, please click
HERE
to go to the correct booking page.

Can’t see a time that suits you? Give us a call and we will endeavour to book you in for your preferred time. Ph:

We are always happy to have a chat with you prior to making an appointment. Please give us a call or send us an email with your details.

Acupuncture in Wauchope & Port Macquarie

Kim Gatenby is now available for appointments for acupuncture in Wauchope and Port Macquarie, servicing the Hinterlands and Port Macquarie area. Kim previously owned a highly successful fertility acupuncture clinic in Sydney, and has made the tree change to provide acupuncture for the people of Port Macquarie/Hastings. Kim has 18+ years experience treating a wide range of health conditions, from babies to people in their 90’s, so is well placed to take care of your health needs holistically. Kim is happy to work with your GP to create a health plan that is safe and promotes optimal longterm wellbeing.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/fertility-care]
Kim Gatenby Acupuncture is committed to bringing you the finest in care, with a blend of traditional Chinese medicine concepts and modern knowledge.

Kim has a particular interest in working with patients with fertility issues, and holds a Master of Reproductive Medicine with Excellence from the University of New South Wales, and a Bachelor of Applied Science in Traditional Chinese Medicine.

Kim’s approach is both caring and supportive, and she aims to guide you through the challenges of infertility and support you whether you want to conceive naturally or with the help of IVF.

In addition to supporting patients on their conception journey for the past 18 years, Kim also runs seminars for other practitioners to learn her fertility care techniques (recordings and mentoring available through the Training tab)/

Telehealth and in-person fertility consultations can be
booked online

Looking for IVF support? Kim has partnered with IVF leaders
Demeter Fertility
in Sydney. Kim can manage your cycle from the Mid North Coast while any consultations required with Dr David Knight can be undertaken via TeleHealth, meaning you only need to travel to Sydney for egg collections or embryo transfers. Kim is proud to be able to bring such a holistic IVF option to the people of Port Macquarie and surrounding Hinterland. If you have any questions about whether IVF is right for you, please

Review of Chinese herbal medicine for female infertility. 2015.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/fertility-care/fertility-acupuncture-port-macquarie]
[etpbheading title=”Enhance Your Fertility Journey” builderversion=”4.24.3″ modulepreset=”f0c675ea-2574-4d0e-b725-30f8550a8550″ titlelevel=”h4″ titlefont=”Proza Libre|Cormorant Garamondweight||on|||||” titletextcolor=”#FFFFFF” titlefontsize=”14px” titleletterspacing=”1px” titlelineheight=”1.4em” custommargin=”||10px||false|false” titlefontsizetablet=”13px” titlefontsizephone=”13px” titlefontsizelastedited=”on|desktop” locked=”off” globalcolorsinfo=”{}”][/etpbheading][etpbheading title=”Personalised Holistic Care for your Reproductive Health” builderversion=”4.24.2″ modulepreset=”ddeb8c09-9078-4424-bc15-2efb6572e28e” titlefont=”Cormorant Garamond|Cormorant Garamondweight|||||||” titletextcolor=”#FFFFFF” titlefontsize=”72px” titlelineheight=”1.15em” titlefontsizetablet=”40px” titlefontsizephone=”24px” titlefontsizelastedited=”on|phone” locked=”off” globalcolorsinfo=”{}”][/etpbheading]

Discover the transformative power of acupuncture tailored to support your unique fertility needs. Book your appointment today to take the first step towards your reproductive wellness.

Kim has partnered with Demeter Fertility in Sydney to bring the most holistic IVF program in Australia to the greater Port Macquarie region. You can start your IVF journey or natural conception journey with Kim, and have continuity of care at all times.

Schedule Your Consultation

[etpbheading title=”Kim Gatenby” builderversion=”4.25.2″ modulepreset=”ba4a6336-701f-47b8-bf5c-09da0ce28016″ titlelevel=”h3″ titlefont=”Cormorant Garamond|Cormorant Garamondweight|||||||” titletextcolor=”#d988a1″ titlefontsize=”32px” titlelineheight=”1.3em” custommargin=”||10px||false|false” hoverenabled=”0″ titlefontsizetablet=”22px” titlefontsizephone=”17px” titlefontsizelastedited=”on|phone” globalcolorsinfo=”{}” stickyenabled=”0″][/etpbheading]

Kim Gatenby is a renowned acupuncturist with a Master’s degree in Reproductive Medicine. With over 19 years of experience, she specialises in fertility acupuncture, helping patients navigate their reproductive health journeys. Her expertise extends to managing natural fertility and supporting IVF cycles in collaboration with Demeter Fertility in Sydney. Kim is dedicated to providing compassionate care for conditions such as endometriosis, PCOS, thyroid dysfunction, recurrent miscarriage, male factor infertility, and more. Her holistic approach ensures you will receive personalised treatment to optimise your reproductive health.

Learn More About Kim

[etpbheading title=”Benefits of Fertility Acupuncture” builderversion=”4.25.2″ modulepreset=”c33f07d9-41e0-421a-8799-5799df695cce” titlelevel=”h2″ titlefont=”Cormorant Garamond|Cormorant Garamondweight|||||||” titletextcolor=”#169194″ titlefontsize=”50px” titlelineheight=”1.2em” custommargin=”||10px||false|false” hoverenabled=”0″ titlefontsizetablet=”28px” titlefontsizephone=”20px” titlefontsizelastedited=”on|phone” locked=”off” globalcolorsinfo=”{}” stickyenabled=”0″][/etpbheading]

||fa||900

Holistic Approach to Reproductive Health

Our treatments integrate traditional Chinese medicine with modern reproductive insights to enhance your fertility naturally.

||fa||900

Support for IVF and Natural Conception

Whether you’re pursuing IVF or trying to conceive naturally, our acupuncture sessions are tailored to support your specific needs.

||fa||900

Experienced in Complex Infertility Cases

With decades of extensive experience in treating complex infertility, we provide targeted treatments for conditions like PCOS and endometriosis.

||fa||900

Comprehensive Care for Both Partners

We offer specialized treatments for both male and female fertility issues, ensuring comprehensive support for your journey.

[etpbheading title=”Schedule Your Consultation Today” builderversion=”4.25.2″ modulepreset=”c33f07d9-41e0-421a-8799-5799df695cce” titlelevel=”h2″ titlefont=”Cormorant Garamond|Cormorant Garamondweight|||||||” titletextalign=”center” titletextcolor=”#169194″ titlefontsize=”50px” titlelineheight=”1.2em” custommargin=”||10px||false|false” hoverenabled=”0″ titlefontsizetablet=”28px” titlefontsizephone=”20px” titlefontsizelastedited=”on|phone” locked=”off” globalcolorsinfo=”{}” stickyenabled=”0″][/etpbheading]

Take the first step towards enhancing your fertility with Kim’s specialized acupuncture treatments. Book your appointment now and experience the benefits of expert care tailored to your needs.

Wondering what a consult looks like?

Once you’ve secured an appointment time, you will be able to send Kim any previous blood test results or scans so she can review them prior to your appointment.

Once you’ve arrived at the clinic, Kim will have reviewed your history and be ready to hear directly from you about your concerns, health history, and goals. The consultation is comprehensive and allows plenty of time for you to feel heard. Kim also spends ample time explaining diagnoses and helping you understand your treatment plan.

If you are interested in having acupuncture, this is included in your appointment if you are present physically. During this time, Kim will be putting together your written treatment plan (so you don’t have to memorise everything that is discussed in person!) and making any herbs that may be required.

If you would like your partner to attend as well, you can also send their blood test or semen analysis results in advance too. If your partner has diagnosed male infertility he will require his own separate appointment to allow time to give him the best support possible to maximise fertility results.

If you are seeking IVF, Kim can arrange this directly with Demeter Fertility so you have continuity of care. Demeter are a cutting edge boutique clinic that Kim has partnered with to bring the best possible reproductive care to the Mid North Coast. Demeter offer ovarian rejuvenation (PRP) and IVF services. By doing your IVF through Kim, you will have continuity of care and an IVF clinic who supports you holistically.

At the end of your appointment, you will walk away feel reassured that your reproductive health is in good hands, and you will have a plan going forward. Kim always wants you to feel supported, so she can work with you to create a plan that feels achievable for you, so that you can stick to it and get the best results.

If you have any questions about your care, please contact Kim directly through the
contact page.

[etpbheading title=”Explore Our Clinic” builderversion=”4.25.2″ modulepreset=”f0c675ea-2574-4d0e-b725-30f8550a8550″ titlelevel=”h4″ titlefont=”Proza Libre|Cormorant Garamondweight||on|||||” titletextalign=”center” titletextcolor=”#169194″ titlefontsize=”14px” titleletterspacing=”1px” titlelineheight=”1.4em” custommargin=”||10px||false|false” hoverenabled=”0″ titlefontsizetablet=”13px” titlefontsizephone=”13px” titlefontsizelastedited=”on|desktop” globalcolorsinfo=”{%22#22577a%22:%91%22titletextcolor%22%93}” stickyenabled=”0″][/etpbheading][etpbheading title=”Welcome to Our Healing Space” builderversion=”4.25.2″ modulepreset=”c33f07d9-41e0-421a-8799-5799df695cce” titlelevel=”h2″ titlefont=”Cormorant Garamond|Cormorant Garamondweight|||||||” titletextalign=”center” titletextcolor=”#169194″ titlefontsize=”50px” titlelineheight=”1.2em” custommargin=”||10px||false|false” hoverenabled=”0″ titlefontsizetablet=”28px” titlefontsizephone=”20px” titlefontsizelastedited=”on|phone” globalcolorsinfo=”{}” stickyenabled=”0″][/etpbheading]

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/training]
Seminars and training with Kim Gatenby

Expand your integrative clinical practice.

Upgrade your healing treatments by learning an integrative approach to Chinese medicine through seminars and training with Kim Gatenby. You already know TCM is a beautiful, holistic medicine that can serve your patients wholeheartedly, but combining it with up to date research advances will take your practice to the next level, making you highly sought after in your local area.

We offer 3 ways to upgrade your clinical practice with us:

Online mentoring

One on one mentoring sessions are available to help you work through complex cases. Sessions cost $140 for 1 hour and are a form of CPD. You can email through patient blood tests/scans in advance and Kim will support you in understanding how to piece together complex cases in an integrative way.

Recorded learning

We have a range of pre-recorded courses for your CPD learning. In 2025 we will be releasing recordings on incorporating supplements into your treatments,
integrative management of recurrent miscarriage
, and Kim’s highly popular full day seminar on integrative fertility care.

In person seminars

Kim occasionally offers in person training events. They will be listed here, and you can join our email list to be notified of any future seminars.

One to one CPD activities

Click here to book

Integrative Fertility full seminar.

This is Kim’s signature full day seminar, covering common reproductive disorders and how to manage your fertility patients in an integrative way. (Coming in August)

Incorporating supplements into your fertility treatments.

Add an extra layer of expertise to your treatment toolkit with this 1 hour recorded seminar. (Coming in August)

Integrative management of recurrent miscarriage.

All the information you won’t find in your text books on how to support your patients with miscarriages. (Coming in August)

About Kim

M Rep Med, Ba App Sci (TCM)

Kim finished her TCM degree in 2006 and has spent most of her career working with patients in Sydney, Australia. She has undertaken a Master of Reproductive Medicine and received top honours (with excellence). Kim likes to combine the two styles of healthcare by practicing integrative Chinese medicine with a strong focus on reproductive care.

Like yourself, Kim regularly undertakes extra training, and likes to join in with naturopaths, OBGYNs, GPs and Chinese medicine practitioners to gain a broad range of knowledge from various sources of medicine.

Kim enjoys mentoring other practitioners to develop their own integrative approach, and offers her advice on your trickiest cases. Not only will you gain an extra understanding of ways to help your current patients, you will learn through experience that you can relate back to people you already treat.

Kim’s previous seminars have won awards (Best presentation in scientific/academic research AACMAC 2022) and been highly regarded amongst other acupuncturists/Chinese medicine practitioners.

Kim has a passion for sharing her knowledge through seminars, and plans to record her previous live seminars and make them available to you here. Please join the newsletter list to keep up to date with when these launch shortly in August 2024.

Pop your details in here to get notified when we release any new seminars and training with Kim Gatenby. Don't rely on your memory to come back and check periodically, because life gets busy! We will only send you emails directly related to Kim's training offerings, never any spam. Unsubscribe at any time.

Success!

First Name

Subscribe

Send us a message!

Email Address

||divi||400

Kim Gatenby Acupuncture

39 Cameron St Wauchope NSW 2446

Monday:
9am – 6pm

Wednesday:
8am  – 5pm

Friday:
12pm – 5pm

Saturday :
9am –1pm

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/contact]
7 + 14

Addresses:
39 Cameron St

Wauchope NSW 2446

1/64 Lord Street

Port Macquarie

Email:
contact@kimgatenby.com

Looking for the contact details for Lisa at Dural and St Leonards? Please check out
www.sydneynaturalfertility.com

Wauchope Clinic

To navigate the map with touch gestures double-tap and hold your finger on the map, then drag the map.

Wauchope Acupuncture

Port Macquarie Clinic

Physio Collective

BESbswy

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/natural-killer-nk-cells-fertility]
Natural Killer (NK) Cells & Fertility

KimGatenby
Oct 27, 2015
Fertility
6 comments

Medicine in the field of infertility is constantly evolving, which is good news for couples who are struggling to conceive. We know much more about the causes of infertility now than ever before, and thankfully we have quite a few options to treat infertility as well, such as IVF.

Natural Killer Cells (NK Cells) are starting to be diagnosed as a possible issue in infertility, which is giving some answers to women who previously had been told they had unexplained infertility.

I’ve always believed it’s better to get a diagnosis (even though it can initially be a bit depressing), because then you have something to focus your treatments on.

NK cells are a natural part of our immune system, but in some people there is an overabundance of these cells in the uterus. This may lead to the body attacking an embryo when it’s trying to implant because it thinks it’s a foreign item that needs to be destroyed. We currently don’t have enough evidence in reproductive medicine to be sure this is exactly what’s happening though.

Steroid treatment is the preferred Western medicine form of treatment for high NK cells leading to miscarriage, however at this stage the
evidence for it’s use
is not considered to be available. Steroids are often started during the cycle, and stopped if there’s no pregnancy, or continued for at least the first trimester if there’s a positive pregnancy result.

While steroid treatment is prescribed by a qualified doctor, as with all medicines, it comes with risks and side effects. Those risks can include reduced foetal development, meaning your baby may be small at full term. (
Source

Chinese herbs may be another possible method of treating NK cell related infertility, however more high quality studies would be advised. The herbs are traditionally designed to support a healthy pregnancy by improving ‘Qi’ and reducing ‘restless foetus syndrome’ which is traditional Chinese medicine terminology.

According to a
review of the available studies
for Chinese medicine to treat threatened miscarriage:

“The meta-analysis in limited randomized clinical trials did not support that Chinese medicines alone were more effective than Western medicines. But it showed that combined Chinese and Western medicines were more effective than Western medicines alone to prevent inevitable miscarriage and continue pregnancy after 28 weeks of gestation. Meta-analysis in other clinical trials indicated that Chinese medicines alone or Chinese medicines combined with Western medicines were more effective than Western medicines alone to treat threatened miscarriage in relieving the clinical signs, including vaginal bleeding, low back pain, and abdominal pains. The result confirmed the therapeutic effects of Chinese medicines alone and combined with other pharmaceuticals for threatened miscarriage.”

Ultimately this review determined the outcomes of the available studies to not show effectiveness, but this was possibly due to the inconsistencies of herbal treatment (meaning different formulas were given based on Chinese medicine diagnoses, without adequate control groups).

I was unable to find any recent studies on Chinese herbs for NK cells.

If you have been diagnosed with high NK cells potentially leading to your infertility, it is advisable to work closely with your health professionals for treatment.

How to Chart your Menstrual Cycle
Should you freeze your eggs?
Low Ovarian Reserve & Egg Quality Tips
Master of Reproductive Medicine

Sarah Chapelle

on November 24, 2017 at 8:05 am

Hi,

I’ve suffered 5 miscarriages in a row (3 after IUI treatment and 2 after IVF) and I have been diagnosed with elevated NK cells. We finally tried a surrogate but sadly after two attempts she has not gotten pregnant. We have one embryo left 🙁

I previously tried intralipid treatment on it’s own. Then switched specialists (to an immune RE) and he put me on intralipid and steroids but I still had the 5th miscarriage. For the last few months I’ve been taking herbs (with a few breaks off them during vacations) prescribed by my acupuncturist/Chinese herbalist.

My specialist says that the last embryo still has a better chance in our surrogate than in me, so I’m wondering if I should try IUI again on me. Have you heard of anyone successfully doing IUI with herbs and prednisone to combat elevated NK cells?

Thank you!

Sarah

Reply

on November 24, 2017 at 10:36 pm

Hi Sarah,

Sorry to hear about the tough journey you’ve been on.

I don’t see why IUI should be any different to IVF in the case of NK cells that are being treated with herbs and medicine.

However it sounds like NK cells aren’t the only factor in your miscarriages. Have you been tested for MTHFR? If you search on my site for MTHFR you can read my article about it. If you haven’t been tested this should be done in advance of another IUI or transfer.

Best of luck. Kim.

Christie Edwards

on March 3, 2017 at 7:28 am

I’ve had a few miscarriages all at around 6-8 weeks I’ve been for private tests which indicate high level of nk cells and nhs tests put it down to my stress levels which caused miscarriages… interested in acupuncture can you give me some more information

on March 3, 2017 at 1:45 pm

Hi Christie,

I’m so sorry to hear about your miscarriages. Stress certainly plays a part in our health in all aspects, but it isn’t specifically a cause of recurrent miscarriage. Obviously you will feel better in general with good stress management in place (we all need this!), but when it comes to NK cells, a combined holistic and medical approach has been found to be the most effective. If your doctors are not willing to give you Prednisone (or similar) then it’s worth finding a good acupuncturist/Chinese herbalist who can give you ongoing support with acupuncture, as well as herbal medicine to manage the NK cell level. The acupuncture would be based around supporting your immune system to function at it’s most effective, which will help with pregnancy health, as well as being a form of stress management. You would also benefit from herbal medicine during your next pregnancy to act as a support. Tu Si Zi is one of my favourite herbs for preventing miscarriage.

Best of luck for your future.

Rachel Wise

on February 29, 2016 at 9:26 pm

Hello,

Please could you tell me which chinese tablets help to reduce elevated Natural Killer cells which cause infertility please.

Many Thanks

Rachel

on February 29, 2016 at 9:40 pm

Hi Rachel,

There isn’t a patented pill version of the herbs for NK cells, it’s something your Chinese medicine practitioner would make for you specially (either raw herbs or granule herbs), with minor modifications based on your individual circumstances. My advice would be to find a practitioner who specialises in this field nearest to where you live so you can get a prescription made up.

Best of luck,

Kim.

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/fragmented-embryos-acupuncture-chinese-herbal-medicine-can-help]
Fragmented Embryos : Can Acupuncture or Chinese Medicine help?

KimGatenby
Feb 20, 2017
Fertility
0 comments

Modern medicine is a beautiful tool that we can use to assist our health journey, but it’s only part of the story. I personally love to encourage my patients to seek diagnostic measures (and IVF where necessary), and combine that with the wisdom and healing power of Chinese medicine.

Fragmented embryos are one area where the two forms of medicine can come together to make a difference to couples trying to conceive.

Fragmented embryos are a situation where the embryo starts to grow and divide, but then everything starts to fragment and fall apart, and we are left with no viable embryos by the 5 day mark, when ideally transfer would happen in IVF.

You may have been told that there’s nothing that can be done about fragmented embryos, but based on recent studies, that may not be true.

While we are born with all the eggs we will ever have, that doesn’t mean our general health won’t impact how strong and healthy they are at time of collection during IVF. Think about all the people who have chronic health conditions who turn things around and lose heaps of weight to reverse their diseases. They have the same bodies they did before, but better. Theoretically, we should then be able to do that for our eggs as well. I have written an
article on egg quality
that links to numerous studies to confirm the positive effects on egg quality from certain natural interventions. That article complements this one.

June 2016 study
showed positive outcomes during IVF where participants used Chinese medicine (including acupuncture, herbs, diet and lifestyle recommendations) during their cycle. This was compared against acupuncture only on day of embryo transfer, and a control group of no intervention besides IVF. While the mechanism of action can’t be determined from the results because the outcome measured pregnancy rates and not embryo quality, this study suggests further investigations are warranted due to the positive outcome.

A study in June 2014
assessed the outcomes of patients doing ICSI IVF treatments with Chinese herbs or no herbs, and the results showed a positive effect from the treatment group on embryo quality as well as endometrial thickness. This study also warrants further investigations thanks to it’s positive outcomes.

In addition to Chinese herbal medicine, it’s important that your lifestyle and other supplements are supporting healthy eggs as well. You can do this by switching to organic food and making sure your diet is predominantly plant based so you’re getting as much nutrition as possible (references to this statement available in
this article
). The general perception is that organic food is too expensive, but I would encourage you to visit your local farmer’s market on the weekend to see how cheap it can be. Farmer’s markets also have much fresher food because the food goes from the farm to you. I find that produce lasts up to 4 or 5 times as long as the conventional produce I buy at the supermarket.

It’s also worth buying some
Peak Fresh bags
to help prolong your vegetables even more. I use them and they’re fantastic. No more limp, soggy carrots!

Remember, your fertility is an expression of your general health, so it’s important to address all aspects of your health in order to support your eggs/embryos.

Preconception Care
How to Chart your Menstrual Cycle
Everything you need to know about MTHFR.
Low Ovarian Reserve & Egg Quality Tips

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/low-ovarian-reserve-egg-quality-tips]
Low Ovarian Reserve & Egg Quality Tips

KimGatenby
Jul 24, 2017
Fertility
0 comments

Low ovarian reserve means that a woman is running out of her egg supply.  Women are born with all the eggs they will ever have, and they decline over time. Low ovarian reserve just means there are a small number of eggs left. This can leave a lot of women quite stressed, particularly when trying to conceive, or if they’re not yet in a position to have a family.

Initially, the best tests to confirm your ovarian reserve are a pelvic ultrasound that can determine the size of your ovaries in terms of volume, and the AMH test (Anti Mullerian Hormone). The combination of these two tests will give a rough guide about how many eggs are left. The results are often compared to women of a similar age, to know whether you have early low ovarian reserve, or age related low ovarian reserve. While there’s nothing that can be done to change low ovarian reserve, what we can do is work on the quality of the eggs that are left. Below you will find my top 10 tips for helping to improve egg quality and preparing your body for conception.

1.Increase your intake of  organic  fruit and vegetables
. Try and get your diet back to basics and stick to a healthy,
organic
, plant based diet to make sure you are getting as many nutrients into your body as possible.
Pesticides have been linked to reduction in fertility
, so sticking with organic food is important.

2.Start taking a good quality pre-natal vitamin
. One that is prescribed by a natural health practitioner is likely going to be better quality than something you find on a supermarket shelf. Pre-natal vitamins contain folic acid which is a vitamin that
helps prevent neural tube defects
in babies (better quality versions will contain levomefolate calcium instead – look for these ones).

3.Start taking CoQ10
. Co-enzyme Q10 is an antioxidant that supplies your cells with energy. Your eggs are the largest cell in your body, so it’s worthwhile making sure they’re energised and ready for conception.
Evidence exists
that links low CoQ10 levels with declining ovarian quality and supply.
Sperm cells also benefit from CoQ10 supplementation

4.There have been some suggestions that Wheat Grass is beneficial for egg quality
. This isn’t scientifically backed up, but if you’ve heard it before and want to give it a try then there’s unlikely to be any harm. You can think of it as just another way to increase your nutrient intake, as wheatgrass has high levels of
antioxidants
such as
vitamin C,
which is linked to egg quality.

5. Fish Oil  supplements can be useful at reducing inflammation in your body
. DHA (a component of fish oil) has been linked with
benefits for the brain
, and can also help the
visual development of a baby
. The EPA component of fish oil has
anti-inflammatory effects
, and can also
help regulate hormones
. Quality is paramount when it comes to fish oil, which is why our products are the highest grade available on the market.

6.Chinese herbal medicine has  herbs that can improve the quality of eggs
. These formulas are based around strengthening your Qi (energy). You can read more about Chinese herbs for egg quality in
this article on herbs for fragmented embryos

7.Get good quality  sleep
. Sometimes this can be a little out of our control, but you can certainly aim to be in bed before 10pm for deep, restorative, non-REM sleep. Try and make your bedroom a relaxing, quiet space. There are settings on your smart phone that can reduce the
blue light
it emits, which can help your body start to wind down in the evening. You can also try creating your own wind-down routine, e.g. a bath with some relaxing music.

8. Stress  reduction
. Don’t roll your eyes just yet – it can be done!
Stress has been linked to a longer time to pregnancy
, so it’s worth factoring stress reduction into your egg improvement routine. Sometimes we can’t avoid stressful situations, but we can control what happens after them. Some people enjoy meditation, you can even find guided meditations on youtube or your phone. Others prefer exercise like going for walks, to the gym, or a group class. Which brings me to my next point…

9. Exercise
. Our bodies need regular exercise to function well. You
don’t need to train to run a marathon
, just choose exercise styles that you enjoy. You’re much more likely to stick to it if it’s fun. My favourites are
Pilates reformer
, Barre, and going for walks. You might like to try a program such as the
Kayla Itsines BBG
guide if that community group vibe appeals.

10.Vitamin D
. It’s a good idea to have your vitamin D status checked through a blood test. The normal range is listed as above 50, but in natural medicine we like to see it above 100. Low vitamin D status has been linked to
PCOS
endometriosis
, and
low AMH
. By supplementing with Vitamin D you can help balance blood sugar levels, make the uterus a better environment for implantation, and improve AMH levels. A review of studies on vitamin D in fertility can be found
here.

If you follow the above 10 pieces of advice, you’ll be well on your way to improving the quality of your eggs and increasing your chances of conception. Don’t feel bad if you fall off the wagon with any of the above steps, it happens to all of us! Just read through the list again and get back on track as many times as you need.

Want some help with your fertility journey? Online Skype appointments are available for fertility patients only. You can book online

(Either clinic can be selected, just pick which day and time suits you best)

Male Infertility & Sperm Health
Blood Flow to the Uterus
Natural Killer (NK) Cells & Fertility
Should you freeze your eggs?

Trackbacks/Pingbacks

A Fertility Expert's Own Infertility Journey. - Sydney Natural Fertility
- […] I had just turned 32. For my age, the number should have been around 20. 1.3 indicated a severely…

---

[SOURCE: https://www.kimgatenby.com/what-fertility-tests-should-i-get]
Which Fertility Tests Should I Get?

KimGatenby
Aug 2, 2019
Fertility
0 comments

Whether you’ve come to this page because you’ve decided you want to have a baby and things aren’t happening yet, or you just want to know how your fertility is tracking, let’s go through my top fertility tests and what they mean for your reproductive health.

To keep things simple, I’m going to cover my favourite tests that are relevant for a large portion of my patients. Obviously there are some more specific tests that an individual person may need, but the following list covers the top ones that will give your health provider an idea of what’s going on in your body that may have an impact on your reproductive system.

In no particular order, my favourite fertility tests include Anti Mullerian Hormone (AMH), a hormone panel (includes oestrogen, progesterone, etc), Sperm testing, Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH), vitamin D, and Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase gene test (MTHFR).

Anti-Mullerian Hormone  (AMH) .
The AMH test is not covered by Medicare, so it will cost you roughly $80, but it’s money well spent in my opinion. AMH is a hormone excreted by cells in the preantral and antral follicles of the ovaries, and it is used as a marker for ovarian reserve. So basically it can give a rough idea of how many eggs you have left. In women over 40 we expect this number to be low as they head towards menopause, however a low result for a younger woman can indicate that they need to consider having children earlier or protecting fertility through egg freezing. In my clinical experience I have seen patients with low results get higher results at later tests due to lifestyle changes, so even though the number has improved, the ovarian reserve itself has not, but this could be due to the quality of the eggs being improved, or the general reproductive system functioning better. Higher AMH results can be linked to polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). Although AMH is not a diagnostic test for PCOS, it can help your doctor recognise the need for further testing that may ultimately diagnose PCOS.

Hormone Panel (Oestrogen, LH, FSH, SHBG, Testosterone, Progesterone, DHEA).
Your GP will usually be quite happy to do a hormone panel test when you see them for a basic fertility screening. These tests are often done at the same time at any point in the menstrual cycle, however it is often best to split them into times in the cycle that will give the most pertinent results. For example, LH (Luteinising Hormone) and FSH (Follicle Stimulating Hormone) are best tested on day 2 of the cycle to give information about how hard your body is having to work to ovulate. Progesterone should be tested on day 21 of the cycle in a regular 28 day cycle (or 7 days after suspected ovulation). This is to confirm whether ovulation has occurred, and can also show whether low progesterone may be contributing to infertility. The other hormones can be done at any time in the cycle, however it is usually easiest to do them on day 2 with the first lot of tests. A hormone panel can give your practitioner information about possible reproductive conditions that may be inhibiting fertility when left unmanaged such as PCOS.

Sperm Testing (Semen Analysis).
This one is so important yet often gets overlooked! Infertility is 50% male factor, and yet the majority of my fertility patients are women. Quite often the lifestyle advice I give my female patients will naturally impact their partners as well, but it’s always a great idea to
get a sperm test done
just to see where things are at. A sperm test will cover important issues such as motility (how well they move) and morphology (the shape), along with other information such as infections, number of sperm, volume of ejaculate etc. If the sperm have poor motility and morphology, that has a huge impact on fertility. The good news is that most problems with sperm can be easily fixed with the right treatment. Some conditions, like azoospermia (no sperm) can’t be treated, but it’s good to know sooner that this condition exists rather than trying to conceive for 12 months unsuccessfully. It is worth keeping in mind that the “healthy” parameters of a semen test are actually quite low in my opinion. Sperm results worldwide have been dropping, possibly due to toxin exposure, so with my patients I have higher standards that we aim to achieve through supplementation and lifestyle changes. Who wouldn’t want the best possible sperm when trying to conceive?

Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH).
Your thyroid is heavily involved in the hormone function of your body, it’s actually a gland that produces some of your hormones! They often get overlooked because they’re not the obvious hormones like oestrogen and progesterone, but your thyroid hormones are involved in your metabolism and can heavily influence your menstrual cycle without you realising. Hypothyroidism (where the thyroid is unable to produce enough hormones) is linked to miscarriage and can be related to inability to conceive. In testing, the range for TSH is usually 0.4 – 4, however I ideally like to see the result come back between 1 and 2. In pregnancy, TSH is usually kept below 2.5 to reduce the risk of miscarriage, so it’s important to check that TSH isn’t above this range when trying to conceive.

Vitamin D.
Often thought of as “the sun vitamin”, vitamin D has actually been linked to reproductive conditions such as
PCOS
low AMH
, and
endometriosis
. The current range for testing is 50-150, however in natural medicine, and for fertility, we like to see the result come back over 120. Low vitamin D status is very common in Australia, partly due to working indoors, and partly because we have to avoid the sun so much. Women with darker skin tones are also more likely to be vitamin D deficient because the body has a harder time producing enough vitamin D from the sun, so it’s important for all women to get tested, regardless of sun exposure.

Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase gene test (MTHFR).
Genetic testing can be very useful in reproduction. IVF doctors will often do karyotyping (checking the chromosomes) of both partners to make sure certain genetic conditions aren’t passed on to their offspring (like cystic fibrosis), but we can also test for individual genes that may impact fertility. MTHFR is a gene involved in the processing of folate/folic acid. When this gene has a polymorphism, or “defect”, it doesn’t work as well and will result in a reduced ability to turn folic acid into 5-MTHF, which is the bioactive version of vitamin B9 (folate) that the body can actually utilise. A defect in the MTHFR gene has been linked to infertility, recurrent miscarriage, blood clotting disorders (these affect fertility too), and mood disorders. If you would like to read more about MTHFR, you can
check out my blog post
dedicated to it.

As you can see, there are many tests that can give a good idea of certain conditions that may be impacting fertility for both partners. Tests should always be interpreted by a qualified health care practitioner, preferably with further training in reproductive medicine, such as myself. If you would like me to be a part of your reproductive health care team, I am available for
in-clinic consultations
in Dural and St Leonards, and
Skype consultations
worldwide. If you have a friend who may benefit from this post, please consider sharing it with them.

Natural Killer (NK) Cells & Fertility
Should you freeze your eggs?
Fragmented Embryos : Can Acupuncture or Chinese Medicine help?
Low Ovarian Reserve & Egg Quality Tips

A Fertility Expert's Own Infertility Journey. - Sydney Natural Fertility
- […] shouldn’t we investigate that further?”. I requested my anti mullerian hormone (AMH) levels to be tested. This is why…