[SOURCE: https://peelacupuncture.com.au/]
Peel

Acupuncture

Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine

treatments located in Mandurah

Peel Acupuncture & Traditional Chinese Medicine

Are you in pain?
Are you planning to fall pregnant or do you have fertility issues?
Are you having pregnancy related issues?
Are you suffering from anxiety or high stress levels?
I may be able to help you!

About Peel Acupuncture

Welcome to Peel Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine. My name is Simon Wright and I am a Chinese Medicine Board of Australia (CMBA) registered acupuncturist with 20+ years of experience working in the field of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM).

My professional interests are in treating infertility and pregnancy issues, stress and anxiety and all types of pain, whether it be acute, subacute or chronic pain.

There are also many other ailments that acupuncture may be able to help you with. If you have a health concern and would like to know whether acupuncture may be able to help you, please phone me directly or send a message through my contact page.

At Peel Acupuncture I offer you a tranquil, clean space for you to unwind and relax to give your body the best chance of returning to its natural state of good health.

---

[SOURCE: https://peelacupuncture.com.au/services]
Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine services

from Peel Acupuncture

Peel Acupuncture predominantly uses traditional Chinese acupuncture in treatments, but depending on the presenting condition, I will often incorporate western style techniques like dry needling to release active trigger points and motor points.

Cupping

Cupping or functional release cupping is often used alongside acupuncture to improve treatment outcomes. Dysfunction within the fascial system can produce significant mobility issues and pain, and cupping is able to release problematic superficial fascia.

Gua Sha

Gua Sha is a technique of applying a scrubbing type of massage with a smooth blunt edged tool.

I will often use Gua Sha prior to an acupuncture or cupping treatment if there is some form of fascial dysfunction.

Moxibustion/Infrared Therapy

Heat treatments using Moxibustion or an Infrared heat lamp are often combined with other TCM techniques to aid healing. Moxibustion is also traditionally used to assist in the case of a breech presentation in the third trimester of pregnancy.

Nutritional Therapy / Lifestyle Modification

When it is determined that dietary or lifestyle changes are required to better your chances of success, it is important to follow the advice of your practitioner.

Preparing for your treatment

If you have relevant reports from X-rays, ultrasounds, CT or MRI scans, please bring them along with you as they will give me a better understanding of your current problems.

Do make sure you have eaten a light meal within 2 to 3 hours of your appointment and also make sure you are well hydrated.

Usually loose clothing allowing easy access to your limbs and trunk is sufficient, but if other areas need to be exposed, towels will be provided to protect your modesty.

---

[SOURCE: https://peelacupuncture.com.au/infertility]
Infertility

Acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine working

in conjunction with ART & IVF treatments

Acupuncture & Infertility

In my 20+ years of experience as an acupuncturist I have had the pleasure of being professionally involved in many successful pregnancies with couples that have struggled to fall pregnant.

If you are thinking of starting a family in the next 12 months, it is a good idea that you start preparing your body now for what lies ahead.

Acupuncture and TCM can be useful in reducing stress levels, helping to regulate the menstrual cycle and in dealing with any premenstrual symptoms or period pain.

Acupuncture can also be used in conjunction with assisted reproductive technologies (A.R.T.) from western fertility clinics (e.g. IVF treatments).

---

[SOURCE: https://peelacupuncture.com.au/prices]
Prices

treatments and pricing information

Initial Consultation + Acupuncture Treatment

55 Minutes

$ 125

HICAPS eligible

Standard Acupuncture Treatment

35 Minutes

$ 80

Extended Acupuncture Treatment

45 Minutes

$ 100

Private Health Funds

To find out if you are eligible for a rebate from your private health fund, contact them directly or download the HICAPS Go app and preview your rebate prior to your appointment.

HICAPS

To find out more on HICAPS and how it works for your claims, please visit the HICAPS patient website.

www.hicaps.com.au

HICAPS GO

Determine your out-of-pocket costs before you book and go into your appointment with confidence, knowing how much it will cost you.

To find out more visit the
website

Download HICAPS GO from your app store

---

[SOURCE: https://peelacupuncture.com.au/faq]
Frequently asked questions on our Acupuncture and

Traditional Chinese Medicine treatments

Frequently Asked Questions

Our Most Frequent Questions With Answers

Does Acupuncture Hurt?

Extremely sharp fine needles are inserted into the skin using a guide tube ensuring that for most people acupuncture is a relatively painless procedure.

Are The Benefits Of Acupuncture Immediate?

For the average patient, it may take 48 hours to notice the benefits of acupuncture.

It is very important for you to set realistic goals depending on whether you have an acute, subacute or chronic condition.

Usually patients with acute or subacute conditions will achieve faster results than those with chronic conditions.

How Long Are The Needles Retained For?

The needles are usually retained for about 20 minutes but in some circumstances, it may only be a few minutes and in other cases up to 30 minutes.

Are There Side Effects?

The main side effect of acupuncture is a sense of relaxation or tiredness which may last for a few minutes or even a few hours after treatment. Sometimes a patient may feel slightly dizzy when getting up after acupuncture but that normally passes within a few minutes.

Do You Need A referral to see an acupuncturist?

No referral is needed to consult with an acupuncturist.

Can I choose what technique I want done?

The practitioner will determine the best course of action for your treatment but special requests regarding preferred techniques will certainly be considered.

Are the needles sterile?

Yes, single use disposable needles are used each and every time.

Do you have another question?
Send Peel Acupuncture a message below

Your Name

your@email.com

Write your message here

3 + 11

2/33 Davey Street, Mandurah WA 6210

---

[SOURCE: https://peelacupuncture.com.au/contact]
Contact Peel Acupuncture

2 + 3

Location

Unit 2 / 33 Davey Street (corner Forrest St)
Mandurah WA 6210

Our Hours

Monday:
Closed
Tuesday:
8:30am – 5:00pm
Wednesday:
8:30am–5:00pm
Thursday:
8:00am –12:00pm
Friday:
Saturday:
8:00am–12:00pm

Email:
admin@peelacupuncture.com.au