[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/]
Come see us for life

Crisis care.  Lifestyle care.  Performance care.

Chiropractors Geraldton-Straight Up Health provides quality chiropractic care in Geraldton and the surrounding areas while teaching
The 100 Year Lifestyle
principles of optimum health, longevity and wellness.

When you are suffering from an injury, pain or other health problem, the chiropractic care we provide will aim to give you the relief and stability you are looking for and address the underlying cause.

If you want to reach optimum health and peak performance levels regardless of your age, or provide healthy drug-free solutions for your children and family, our practice will be a great fit for you.

Everyone deserves to be healthy and express their full potential from the time they are born through their last breath of life. This includes you.

New Patients Welcome

We welcome the opportunity to help you and your family heal and reach your health goals.

PERSONAL AND FAMILY HEALTH HISTORY FORM

Freedom, privacy & choice

We believe in freedom, privacy and autonomy in health care choices for you and your family. If you’re looking for the alternative to mainstream, you’ve found it. We welcome and work with sui juris living beings of all nationalities, ages, genders, pronouns and religious beliefs. Health care, self care, back pain, neck pain, posture, feet, pregnancy, infants, children and wellness. If you believe that the power that made the body heals the body, you’re in the right place.

What are you in to?

No matter what you’re in to, repetitive movements and postures can cause problems for your body.

Whether you’re into fishing, sports, IT or family life, Chiropractors Geraldton Straight Up Health has your back with tailored programs to help you get back to what you do best.

So, click one of the images below and tell us…

Fishing, Farming Fixing

Using Technology

Education & Child Care

Family

Truck Driver, Plant/Machine Operator

Hairdresser, Beauty Therapy

Playing Sport

Healthy Ageing

What's on offer at Straight Up Health?

We use a broad range of techniques and modalities, all designed to help get the best result for you.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/what-are-you-into]
We've got your back

Whatever you spend most of your time doing, we can look at your sore back, neck, sciatica, wrist, shoulder, elbow and more.

We’ll assess your situation and condition to recommend specific treatment strategies as well as exercises to build up strength and movement to help avoid injury.

Click the image above that best describes you and find out more about common concerns.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/fishing-farming-fixing]
TOP FOUR CONCERNS FOR PEOPLE WHO FISH, FARM OR FIX MACHINERY

Lower Back

Aside from known injuries to your lower back, you may also be standing for long periods in incorrect footwear. You are likely bent over for a good part of the day and pulling and pushing to get things done.

Neck & Upper Back

You work physically for long periods of time and often in cramped positions. This can cause extreme forces through your neck and upper back.

Knee & Foot

Knee and Foot problems are often linked together. You may not have any pain in your foot, but when the bones are not moving well, it affects how you walk and this affects your knees.

Knee problems can be caused by traumatic incidents, but knee and foot pain is often made worse by: sitting still for too long; climbing stairs or ladders; or walking or standing in incorrect footwear.

Shoulder & Elbow

You may have had a specific injury such as pulling a load or getting an unexpected jolt. You perform repetitive actions such as pulling on a bar to get in and out of a vehicle or using your tools.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/using-technology]
DESK JOB?

You may be sitting in slumped postures for long periods of time. Your forward head position and incorrect posture cause extreme forces through your neck and upper back.

Headaches & Jaw

Sitting for long periods in incorrect positions can cause tightening through the muscles in the neck and jaw. You may clench your teeth when you use the computer.

Repetitive Strain

Carpal tunnel and tennis elbow are problems often reported by people using computers for long periods of time. This is due to poor posture, ergonomics and repetitive movements.

Aside from injuries that you are aware of, you may be sitting for too long or have poor ergonomics at the computer. Sitting with legs crossed over or under also puts excessive strain on the low back.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/education-childcare]
CARING FOR KIDS?

Aside from known injuries to your lower back, you often stand for long periods in incorrect footwear. You may also be sitting in small chairs or going from sitting on the floor to standing frequently.

You may be clenching your teeth or sitting for long periods with poor posture when marking papers, using computers or doing lesson planning.

You stand or sit for long periods of time and are likely not to notice your posture. Your hectic schedule combined with poor posture results in extreme forces through your neck and upper back.

Shoulder, Elbows & Wrists

You perform repetitive motions all day, as well as lifting and carrying. These activities cause stress on your shoulders and elbows and wrists.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/family]
NATURAL FAMILY HEALTH

Upper Back, Necks & Headaches

Not only do you spend loads of time looking down, bending over and lifting, but family life can be hectic or stressful!

Infants

Even a normal or natural birth can be a traumatic event for both mum and bub. Forces placed on an infant at this time can lead to minor disturbances in the spine. Parents often notice signs such as excessive crying, preferences for sleep positions and head tilt.

Sporting Injuries

Both parents and kids are susceptible to sporting injuries. At Chiropractors Geraldton – Straight Up Health, we help with all kinds of sporting injuries. We look at prevention by detecting postural and movement faults and helping you correct them. Ask us about our ‘Back to School Backpack’ posture screens!

General Family Wellness

We have loads of families who come in for regular check-ups to keep themselves functioning at their best. Come in and see what’s on offer!

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/truck-driver-plant-machine-operator]
SORE FROM HARD WORK?

Aside from known injuries to your lower back, you may often sit for long periods in uncomfortable seats. You are often subject to vibration and jarring on uneven ground.

Shoulder and elbow pain can be brought on through a specific injury such as pulling a load or getting an unexpected jolt. You perform repetitive actions such as pulling on a bar to get in and out of a vehicle as well as using tools and controls repetitively.

Knees

You may sit in cramped positions, climb in and out of vehicles and jump to the ground. Knee problems can be caused by traumatic incidents, but knee and foot pain are often made worse by: sitting still for too long; climbing stairs or ladders; or walking or standing in incorrect footwear.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/hairdresser-beauty-therapy]
TOP THREE CONCERNS FOR PEOPLE WHO WORK IN HAIRDRESSING OR BEAUTY THERAPY

Aside from known injuries to your lower back, you often stand for long periods and may be wearing incorrect footwear. You may also spend loads of time leaning forward with your arms outstretched.

Headaches, Shoulder & Jaw

You may be clenching your teeth, holding your head in uncomfortable positions for long periods of time with poor posture or holding your arms up cutting hair.

You spend long days bent over helping your clients. The forward head position and slump at the chest cause extreme forces through your neck and upper back. Also standing in incorrect footwear makes your body work harder to maintain good posture.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/play-sport]
Top concerns for people who train and play sport

Injuries

You name it. We have worked with injuries from the back and neck to knee, shoulder, elbow and ankle. Sporting injuries are frequent and it is best to treat it sooner rather than later.

We’re here to help you properly recover and return to doing what you love best.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/healthy-ageing]
how are you ageing?

Pain & Stiffness?

It’s easy to blame age for your aches and pains and most people think there is nothing that can be done. There’s lots that can be done! At Chiropractors Geraldton – Straight Up Health, we know you can feel so much more comfortable and flexible with some regular gentle care.

Brain Fog?

Joints, muscles and connective tissue are filled with receptors that send massive amounts of stimulation to the brain. When joints and tissues lose mobility, it slows down stimulation to the brain. This may result in lower energy throughout your whole system. Gentle chiropractic care to increase movement of these tissues may increase stimulation to the brain.

Trips and Falls?

Studies have shown that the joints, muscles and connective tissue are filled with receptors that send massive amounts of information to the brain about where you are in space. When joints lose mobility it slows down the flow of this information to the brain.

As the joints send less information to the brain, the brain becomes less aware of where each point of the body is. Poor foot placement awareness and the ability to correct balance may be affected.

Increasing mobility in the joints increases the feedback to the brain which may help the body with balance and coordination.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/our-team]
Chiropractors

Dr Lisa Naera

Principal Chiropractor & Founder of Straight Up Health

Dr Lisa is a passionate chiropractor who offers her special gift of intuition and connection. Her aim is to infuse all of Straight Up Health with her values of honesty, love, kindness and compassion. She is an experienced manual adjuster who also has completed training in Reiki, Bio Geometric Integration, Esoteric Acupuncture, traditional Chinese Acupuncture and dry needling.

When you become a patient of Dr Lisa’s you will get a holistic assessment of your condition, a plan to help you through it and exceptional skills to help you get the results you’re after. She knows that the mind, body and soul are all intimately entwined and complete alignment on all planes is the key to the full expression of your life force.

Dr Kelly Colliver

Chiropractor

Dr Kelly became a chiropractor after experiencing the great benefits of chiropractic herself.  She is passionate about helping people feel their best and believes that when the body is working at its absolute peak, amazing things can happen.

She is a talented and caring chiropractor and will do everything in her power to help you become the best version of yourself. Gentle hands, empathy and skilled adjusting are the gifts she will share with you.

Dr Kelly uses a range of modalities including manual adjusting, trigger point therapy, stretching and Kinesio taping.

Dr Sam Sakakibara

Sam’s journey for health care had started back when he was travelling around Australia for the first time in 2007. “One day I had injured my back and just couldn’t recover for weeks. I didn’t know anything about chiropractic at the time, so I was skeptical about seeing one at first. I’m happy that I did, because it not only resolved the injury, but also set me on a path in life to provide the same amazing care for people in the future”. The following year Sam first started treating patients in a sports injury clinic as a Remedial massage therapist, and in 2021 he had completed his double bachelor’s degree in Chiropractic and Clinical Chiropractic at Murdoch University. Sam values meeting and helping patients from all cultures and backgrounds, with the aim of maintaining their physical wellness, which can then reflect positively on every other aspect of their life.

Remedial Massage Therapist

New clients

Existing Clients

Summer Ferrara

Helping her clients feel great is Summer’s first priority.

During her study, she learned the latest techniques in massage and Kinesio taping as well as exercise and stretching. Summer has worked hard to graduate at the top of her class at TAFE.

During your one-hour long appointment with Summer, you can expect a thorough history and exam. This is followed by a firm, targeted massage and care plan designed to help you get your health back.

Customer Service

Cody

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/our-services]
Our range of services represents our holistic view towards your health. Most of our patients come to see us for back pain, neck pain and headaches. While you are visiting, we look at how your whole system works together and routinely work on feet, knees, shoulders, elbows, wrists and even your jaw! We see everyone from birth to very advanced age.

Below are the key services and techniques we use to help you feel better. Click on the image to find out more.

Chiropractic Adjustments

PEMF & Far Infrared Light Therapy

Exercise & Stretches

Foot Stabilisation

Kinesio Taping

Remedial Massage

Posture Assessment

Dry Needling

TMJ - Jaw Reset

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/health-care-philosophy]
Our Health Philosophy

Everyone deserves to be healthy and express their full potential from the time they are born through their last breath of life. This includes you!

To help you maximise your ability to heal from an injury, pain or health problem, to identify underlying conditions that you may not feel yet, or to achieve optimum health and peak performance levels, the following scientific and philosophical premises should be applied to your health care and lifestyle.

Innate Intelligence

You have, within you, an Innate Intelligence. Present from the moment you were conceived, this intelligence grew you from 1 cell into over 80 quadrillion cells that were organised and specialised to keep you healthy and functioning at your highest level throughout your lifetime. This Innate Intelligence guides the processes in your body that turn food into cells, eliminate waste products, coordinate muscle contraction and communicate with or without your conscious thought to every cell, tissue and organ of your body via your nervous system. As long as there is no interference to this system, you have the capability to heal, feel great, be healthy and function well for a lifetime. Nurture this Intelligence for the development of your human potential and you will set personal records in all areas of your life.

Interference

Unfortunately, there can be interference to the communication and expression of this intelligence within your body. This interference causes dis-ease, weakness, and imbalances within your nervous system that can cause all types of immediate health problems. Or, this interference can lie dormant and asymptomatic for decades, leading to severe health conditions, chronic pain, deterioration and disease down the road.

Nerve Interference in the spine is called a vertebral subluxation. Lifestyle Interference is a result of poor health habits such as overeating, poor nutrition, excessive drinking, taking prescription or non-prescription drugs, or sitting too much. Environmental Interference is caused by toxicity from air, food, water, or chemicals, as well as accidents or natural disasters. All three types of interference can cause pressure in your spine and nervous system and affect your health on every level.

Adjustments

Using a variety of chiropractic techniques, we will work to remove this interference from your body so that you can heal quickly, stabilise, regenerate and achieve optimum health and peak performance levels for a lifetime.

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/category/health-articles]
Your Healthy Gut

https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/Your-Healthy-Gut.mp3  There is a lot of talk these days […]

Your browser does not support the audio element. But you can check this for the original link: https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/Your-Healthy-Gut.mp3?_=57

Healthier Going In, Healthier Coming Out

https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Healthier-Going-In-Healthier-Coming-Out.mp3    Life […]

Your browser does not support the audio element. But you can check this for the original link: https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/Healthier-Going-In-Healthier-Coming-Out.mp3?_=3

Your Tongue—A Driver of Health

When the topic of healthy longevity comes up the conversation almost never includes the tongue. Even when the […]

Your browser does not support the audio element. But you can check this for the original link: https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/03/Your-Tongue.mp3

Your Brain Has Stages

Despite all our efforts to study the human brain, it remains a complex and mysterious organ. The good news is, […]

Your browser does not support the audio element. But you can check this for the original link: https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/01/Your-Brain-Has-Stages.mp3

The Top 10 Reasons You Should Not Ignore a Backache

https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/10-Reasons-You-Should-Not-Ignore-a-Backache.mp3  Ignoring a […]

Your browser does not support the audio element. But you can check this for the original link: https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/10-Reasons-You-Should-Not-Ignore-a-Backache.mp3

When Losing Weight Hurts

Losing weight is a topic of conversation with just about everyone these days. That’s likely because approximately […]

Doctor of the Present

In 1903, Thomas Edison made a revolutionary prediction about healthcare that challenged everything we know about […]

Your browser does not support the audio element. But you can check this for the original link: https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/01/Dr.-of-the-Present.mp3

The 100 Year Lifestyle Defined

Centenarians are the world's fastest growing age group. Will you choose a 60-year lifestyle and suffer the […]

Your browser does not support the audio element. But you can check this for the original link: https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/01/The-100-Year-Lifestyle-Defined.mp3

Are You Underutilizing Chiropractic Care?

https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/Are-You-Underutilizing-Chiropractic-Care.mp3  It’s human […]

Your browser does not support the audio element. But you can check this for the original link: https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/Are-You-Underutilizing-Chiropractic-Care.mp3?_=14

We Research Cars More Than Surgery

https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/We-Reaserch-Cars-More-Than-Surgery.mp3  Here’s one of […]

Your browser does not support the audio element. But you can check this for the original link: https://the100yearlifestyle.com/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/We-Reaserch-Cars-More-Than-Surgery.mp3?_=16

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/100-year-lifestyle-posts]
The 100 Year Lifestyle

Enjoy these
100 Year Lifestyle
chiropractic posts courtesy of Straight Up Health AU in Geraldton WA 6530.

100 Year Lifestyle Chiropractic Essentials

100 Year Healthy Recipes

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/get-in-touch]
Leave us a message

First Name

Last Name

Contact Number

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/personal-health-history-form]
Personal Health History Form

Thank you for making your booking. It is now time for us to learn more about you. Please complete the following form so that we can get a better picture about how you are feeling and what else you are dealing with in your life.

We have several chiropractors at Straight Up Health. You may see only one of us or you may get a chance to see several, depending on the type or level of care you require. We each have different techniques that may help you heal. Please enjoy your journey and communicate with us.

We love children and will help you with them while you are having your appointment, if needed. Please monitor your children’s behaviour while they are here and be considerate towards other people in the waiting room. We have a change table in the toilet area for your convenience.

If we are running behind it is not because we do not care, it is usually because we care too much. Someone might be having a rough day or be in a large amount of pain and may need a bit of extra time. We do our best to help each person but some things are out of our control. If you are concerned about being on time, please phone us before your appointment to see how our timeline is moving. Please be kind to our reception team – they do their best.

This is your journey; we are here to help you along.

Thank you for choosing Chiropractors Geraldton – Straight Up Health!

Patient Name:

Address:

City/Town:

State:

Post Code:

Mobile:

Email:

Date of birth:

Gender

Male
Female
Other

Emergency Contact - Name:

Emergency Contact - Phone number:

Who may we thank for referring you?

Next

What brings you in today?

If you are already experiencing a symptom, what is it?

How bad is it? How intense are your symptoms?

Please select from dropdown menu No pain Mild  Moderate Severe Very severe Worst possible pain

Please describe the areas of the body where you have pain or other symptoms:

What does it feel like? Tick where appropriate.

Numbness
Tingling
Stiffness
Dull
Aching
Cramping
Nagging
Sharp
Shooting
Burning
Throbbing
Stabbing
Swelling

Previous

How is this symptom / condition interfering with your personal life? (Select from each dropdown as appropriate)

Choose one No effect Mild effect Moderate effect Severe effect

Your work life?

Your exercise?

Recreation?

Your sleep?

Self-care?

Energy?

Attitude?

Patience?

Productivity?

Creativity?

How committed are you to correcting this issue?

From the dropdown, choose the option that best describes the direction that your health is currently headed.

Choose one Chronic disorders Lack of energy, inattention, minor aches and pains Free from aches and pains Moderate level of energy Optimal level of energy, feeling of wellbeing

What are your immediate health goals?

What are your short term health goals?

What are your long term health goals?

How many children do you have?

Children’s health concerns?

Children’s names and ages:

Are you currently pregnant?

Yes

If you are pregnant, what is your due date?

Number of past pregnancies?

Health concerns during this pregnancy?

Review and check all the condiitions that are part of your health history:

AIDS/HIV
Alcoholism
Anxiety
Arteriosclerosis
Arthritis
Asthma/Allergies
Back Pain
Cancer
Cardiovascular Issues
Childhood Illness
Circulation Issues
Depression
Diabetes
Digestive Issues
Elbow/Wrist/Hand Issues
Endocrine Issues (Thyroid)
Foot/Ankle Issues
Gout
Headaches / Migraines
Heart Disease
Hip Issues
Immune Issues
Lymphatic Issues
Multiple Sclerosis
Neck Pain
Osteoporosis
Reproductive Issues
Ringing in Ears
Scoliosis
Shoulder Issues
Stroke
TMJ Issues
Urinary Issues

Please list any allergies:

Please list any medications you are currently taking:

Please list any supplements you are currently taking:

Please list any motor vehicle accidents you have had:

Please list any work-related incidents or injuries:

Please list any sports-related incidents or injuries:

Have you had any fractures or scars? If so, where and how did you get them?

Please list any operations you have had along with approximate dates:

Have you had chiropractic care before? If so, please complete the following questions:

Name of Chiropractor:

Location:

When was your last adjustment?

When did the Chiropractor last take x-rays?

Is there anything else you would like to tell us about yourself or your life?

January February March April May June July August September October November December

Sun
Mon
Tue
Wed
Thu
Fri
Sat

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/hair-dresser-beauty-therapy]
100 Year Lifestyle Posts

More To Explore

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/dmca-notice]
The Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (the “DMCA”) provides recourse for copyright owners who believe that material appearing on the Internet infringes their rights under U.S. Copyright Law. If you believe in good faith that materials available on this website infringe your copyright, you (or your agent) should send us a notice requesting that we remove such material or block access to it. If you believe in good faith that someone has wrongly submitted a notice to us under this paragraph, then you should send us a counter-notice. Notices and counter-notices must meet the then-current statutory requirements imposed by the DMCA. See http://www.copyright.gov/for details.

If you believe that your work has been improperly copied and posted on this website, then please provide us with the following information: (1) name, address, telephone number, email address, and an electronic or physical signature of the copyright owner or of the person authorized to act on his or her behalf; (2) a description of the copyrighted work that you claim has been infringed; (3) the applicable content and a description of where the material that you claim is infringing is located within this website; (4) a written statement that you have a good faith belief that the disputed use is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and (5) a statement by you, made under penalty of perjury, that the above information in your notice is accurate and that you are the copyright owner or authorized to act on the copyright owner’s behalf. These requirements must be followed to give us legally sufficient notice of infringement.

Notices and counter-notices should be sent to:

Vincent Bushnell, Esq. 1200 Abernathy Road, Building 600, Northpark Town Center

DMCA details are available at http://www.copyright.gov/onlinesp/.

We suggest that you consult your legal advisor before filing a notice or counter-notice. Please be aware that there may be penalties for false claims under the DMCA.

Prev Previous 100 Year Lifestyle Posts

Next Disclaimer Next

---

[SOURCE: https://straightuphealth.com.au/trademarks]
Trademark Information and Ownership of Intellectual Property

The 100 Year Lifestyle and The Family Practice are registered trademarks and service marks of The Family Practice, Inc. (“The Family Practice”) in the United States.  The absence of a trademark notice or legend indicating the registration or ownership by The Family Practice anywhere in the text of this website does not constitute a waiver of The Family Practice’s  trademark or other intellectual property rights concerning that trademark or service mark used or referenced on this website.

This website, its content and the trademarks, logos, service marks, and all other source identifying indicia displayed on this website (collectively, the “The Family Practice Intellectual Property”) are owned by or licensed to The Family Practice with all rights reserved unless otherwise noted. We do not permit third parties to use The Family Practice Intellectual Property in any manner, including advertising, as an endorsement for any product or service, in association with contests or promotions, or for any other purpose, commercial or otherwise, without our prior express written permission.

Nothing contained on this website should be construed as granting, by implication, estoppel, or otherwise, any license or right to use The Family Practice Intellectual Property without our prior express written permission. You are strictly prohibited from using any of The Family Practice Intellectual Property except as expressly provided in these Terms and Conditions of Use. You are also advised that The Family Practice and/or its licensee(s) will aggressively enforce its intellectual property rights to the fullest extent of the law, including seeking criminal prosecution.

Prev Previous Privacy Policy

Next Fishing, Farming Fixing Next